The technology revolution will continue.
It's just rapid fire movement of money.
>> The red lights would start flashing if
it felt like there was blind euphoria.
We've been on this broadening out theme
for a long time.
>> The market's going to broaden out a
little bit.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. at Boomberg
surveillance starts right now. Coming
into Friday, volatility returns. Equity
futures pushing lower following a
volatile session in South Korea as
Micron's margins, mega margins are
becoming a mega problem for everybody
else. Open Aai is reportedly planning to
delay its much anticipated IPO perhaps
into next year.
>> It's a really messy process that this
market is undergoing at the moment,
John, because it's trying to find new
market leadership. We were so far away
really since May of mag 7 those that
safety blanket of the big tech stocks
being able to lead us higher. Now we're
trying to decide okay is it the
infrastructure layer? Is it Micron
that's the new leadership? And oh if
Micron is the leadership is that bad for
everybody else. So you're getting these
big shifts back and forth between market
momentum and it's leading to a lot of
pain in this market.
>> How sustainable is this Danny? We're all
trying to work out the same thing. Apple
attempts to pass on these higher costs,
stock down. Microsoft Microsoft attempts
to pass this on stock down. I've talked
about Meta and Microsoft being at a bare
market now for a number of weeks. Is
that sustainable? Can those guys keep
spending that money to benefit these
chip players with their stocks getting
absolutely hammered?
>> So much of what these companies have
been able to do and their ability to tap
the market has been that they've been in
an I don't know if you want to call it
bubble, but at least really high prices.
That had been the promise of them.
capital was cheap for these companies
because capital markets were treating
them as such. If that changes, it's
going to be more difficult for them. And
at the same time, if you don't know
whether they're going to get the return
on investment, why own them? Why not own
the thing that they're spending on,
which are these chipmakers?
>> So, let's focus on OpenAI potentially
pushing back this IPO. The why? I'm sure
there's a number of reasons, but let's
pick out just what competing with a
supply monster right now. Alphabet with
an upsized equity offering in the last
month or so. We've got the likes of
SpaceX with a record-breaking IPO. And
just in the last week, forgotten about
this already, SKH Highix proposing a $30
billion ADR sale, which alone is one of
the biggest equity offerings we've ever
seen in this equity market.
>> It's a supply problem. And look, if
OpenAI decides to delay their IPO, we've
got to worry about the rest of this
market. And what else can IPO? Because
it had been a market where people said,
"Yes, it's an open market, but for the
right company." If OpenAI, one of the
foundational LLMs, is not the right
company, then what is?
>> You wonder what it means for the likes
of Anthropic. Still on track for
something later this year. We'll see.
Danny's with us all morning. Lucky to
have her with us because the likes of
Amber and Brammo are taking a very long
weekend. Lisa calls Aspen work, by the
way. Just for
>> Aspen in the summer. What a what a tough
go.
>> Aspen in the summer apparently is work.
So good for Brammo. After Rio, I'm not
jealous or envious of course. Equity
futures right now, the S&P 500 negative
by 610 of 1%. Coming up this hour, we'll
catch up with Cam Dawson of New Edge
Wealth as the tech selloff snowballs.
Sarah Kun of Cleo Capital as OpenAI
considers postponing its IPO and Claudia
Sound of New Century Advisers on the
Fed's path back to 2%. We begin this out
with stocks sliding as AI spending
concerns rattle investors. Cam Dawson of
New Edge Wealth writing, "Truly
everything hinges on one thing. How long
will hyperscalers be willing to throw
all their capital into AI
infrastructure, mostly as the market
punishes their stock prices?" Cameron
joins us now for more. Cameron, good
morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning,
>> Cam. Is this sustainable? What's your
view on things?
>> I think the only reason why Micron's
able to post 830% earnings growth in the
year of 2026 is because the hyperscalers
are willing to deep reach very deep into
their pockets, burning all of their free
cash flow in order to build out capex,
tapping the debt markets, now tapping
the equity markets. And I think the big
question is how much more upside is
there to hyperscaler capex spending. The
reason why we've seen so much upside to
the AI infrastructure earnings this year
is because people have revised higher
their their hyperscaler capex numbers up
from 30% to start the year to now 90%.
So when you look into 2027, people are
expecting 20 to 30% growth on top of
this year's 90%. The question is where
does that money come from? We're talking
about hundreds of billions of dollars.
And there's a really big question as to
whether or not this equity market will
have the patience with these
hyperscalers to wait for the returns to
come.
>> At the moment, that patience is wearing
thin. I've mentioned that quote from the
Alphabet executive a number of summers
ago when they came out and said the
biggest risk here is underinvesting and
not overinvesting. That really set the
tone for the amount of capex we've seen.
How sensitive do you think that argument
will be to the push back that's
developing at the single name level?
>> Yeah. When you tell everybody that
you're in an arms race and it's an
existential crisis, this is not
necessarily something that you would
correlate with higher margins. And I
think the challenge that we have is
that, you know, these companies used to
be such capital-like businesses and that
was who they were at their core. Now
they're morphing into these highly
capital intensive businesses. And the
really big question is whether or not
this is a good way a good place to
allocate capital where we'll get the
kind of returns that we got in their
legacy businesses which were monopolies
and capital light. Now we're capital
intensive and comp competitive which
says to us these are lower return on
invested capital businesses and we think
that's why the market has been punishing
them. If you look at their returns the
reason why they're down is not because
of earnings. Earnings are still being
revised higher for all these companies.
It's because you've taken 10 multiple
turns out of their their names. The Mag
7 used to trade at 35 times at the peak
last year. It's now at 25 times. So this
is the market saying we don't like the
deterioration in free cash flow
generation. And I think that's why
you're seeing this multiple compression.
>> Karen, I just think about what are the
consequences for so many funds that have
decided that they just want to be an AI
infrastructure bet. CO2, the hedge fund,
opened up an AI infrastructure strategy.
John Gray from Blackstone was at a
conference saying Blackstone is now an
AI company because AI infrastructure is
the future. If those hyperscalers stop
spending, what happens to that entirety
of the ecosystem?
>> It's one of the things that we've been
wrestling not just within public markets
but within private markets as well where
you're signing up for 7 to 10 year fund
lives. And yes, we can acknowledge that
today at this very moment there are very
distinct supply shortages. There is so
much more demand for compute than there
appears to be available capacity. But as
we know, whenever you have supernormal
profits, it tends to draw on capital,
draw in competition. And so if we're
looking for seven to 10 year kinds of
investments, as you would say with a
Blackstone, who is a private market
player that the question is does this
supply demand imbalance remain during
that entire fund life. So I think it's a
really really open question how long
this supply demand imbalance actually
persists. These are some big unknowns.
So what takes the mantle in the big
time? Is it the semis that these
hyperscalers are spending on? Is it
banks? Is it something cyclical, totally
separate from the AI trade?
>> I mean, I think the story of the last
month has been the rotational market.
You have the dynamic where you have the
S&P 500 flat on the surface, but you
have 10% more names above their 50-day
moving average today than you had at the
start of June. So, this is all this big
rotation underneath the surface. It's
not necessarily people running for the
hills from equities overall. You add on
top of that something like the Russell
2000 outperforming mag 7 by 27% this
year. But there's a really big caveat
with Russell 2000. We get the rebalance
at the end of this month. And all of the
big names that have driven Russell 2000
outperformance are actually graduating
up into the Russell 1000. So the
challenge you have is that your biggest
winners are moving out of the index. So
it's effectively like saying that the
Knicks, if you traded all the players
away, are they still the Knicks? That's
effectively what's happening to the
Russell 2.
>> And we've got a rate high debate on the
horizon as well. Somewhat linked to the
tech story. We're seeing these
companies, Microsoft, Apple, pass on
these higher costs. Consumer electronics
are going to go up in price. And even
though we've had a reset in crude
prices, we've had a firming in rate hike
bets over the last month. What do you
make of that disconnect?
>> What a brave new world that we're
talking about goods inflation being
persistent. For the last 20 years, goods
has been a source of disinflation or
actually outright deflation because of
globalization, because of productivity.
But ever since the pandemic and then you
had tariffs and now you have AI, you're
in a world where good goods inflation
has been far more persistent. Now, the
good news on the other side of the
inflation story is that wage pressures
are not there. So you're not seeing the
same dynamic of wage price spiral and
you don't have pressure from housing as
housing continues to be in the doldrums
due to the high high rates at the long
end of the curve. So the combination of
everything means that high goods
inflation services maybe not as bad. Um
but then you also have to contend with
the potential that we could see negative
headline prints on CPI just because of
falling oil prices. So we think maybe
peak inflation fears might be behind us
at least in the very near term. So, I'm
not expecting a 22 repeat a Fed that's
got a scramble. We can't by definition
go from 0 to 5 again, but could we see
three hikes in the next 6 months?
>> I think that it it really depends on
whether or not we see more pressure on
this inflation spreading to other areas.
And I think the fact that core PCE is
still at 3.4% would be the one reason
that you would argue for rate hikes. And
I feel as if and and this is you really
coming in very similar to what Dada was
arguing which is that because Wars
abstained from providing a DOT he
effectively was opening up the door for
those rate hikes by saying look it
wasn't me I didn't do this and so that
effectively is giving room to
potentially height rates but if you're
in an environment where CPI on a year or
on a month-over-month basis is negative
on a headline basis it's hard to see the
Fed hiking in that environment
>> still it's a market that maybe has less
reality checks on exactly where we're
going. If you don't have a war who's as
present and as transparent as Fed chairs
in the past, does that just lead to more
volatility then?
>> Yeah, we've been thinking about the the
lyric from the Rush song a lot, which is
if you choose not to decide, you still
have made a choice. And I think that
that choosing not to decide in the near
term was effectively opening the door
for the hawks as I mentioned. And I
think the big question will be as we get
later into the year as we see the market
still pricing in a one 120% chance of a
hike. So more than one more than one
hike through the end of the year. Do you
actually see him push back against that
in any way? At this meeting it certainly
wasn't the case. He talked about
fighting inflation. Uh but it's really
important to remember you have 10
trillion of Treasury debt outstanding
that has to be refinanced this year. 85%
of that refinancing is coming at the
short end of the curve. So, if there's
one person who really, really, really
wants short-term rates lower, it is
Secretary Bessant because of the
Treasury financing pressure.
>> You were in the room with Besson this
week at the event at the Economic Club
in New York. Was that a green light to
hike rates?
>> I think it wasn't a red light. So, I I
think it was it was support of this hold
and wait and see. It wasn't an allout we
have to cut rates. You didn't see this
argument coming from Bessant talking
about because of AI because of of of
efficiency that you have this huge
runway in order to be able to cut rates
that the neutral rate is lower. It was
effectively whatever the data supports.
I think the most interesting thing from
Bessant at that at the presentation was
the talk about globalization and margins
and the fact that effectively you used
to optimize supply chains for margin for
efficiency and now you have to optimize
supply chains for resiliency and
redundancy and that says to us in the
last 20 years of massive margin
expansion on the back of globalization
does that come into question
>> we'll talk more about that in a moment
Cam Dawson of New Edge wealth two's
right now this morning in the bond
market 2's 1030s yields coming in just a
touch. We've had a reset at the front
end of the yield curve, Danny. We've
gone from 420 down to some 4.1%. So,
yields have declined through the week.
>> Yeah, they they've declined pretty
massively. Maybe that's the back of oil.
Interesting to see that we haven't seen
any yield pick up around the Apple
story. Some of the fears of AIE
inflation that's not being priced into
this market yet.
>> Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Good morning, John. Iran striking a
cargo ship in the straight of Hormuz.
Multiple sources reporting Tehran was
behind the first reported attack since
the interim peace deal between the US
and Iran went into effect last week.
Open AI is leaning toward holding off on
an IPO until next year. The New York
Times reporting bankers cautioned that
recent volatility in tech stocks could
dampen enthusiasm from retail investors
for OpenAI's offering.
The US finishing its World Cup group
stage with a 3-2 loss to Turkey. The
Americans already securing a spot in the
knockout stage though. Team US will face
Bosnia Herzgoina in the round of 32 on
July 1st. And that is your Bloomberg
brief. Tom.
>> Hey Vonnie, thank you. Everybody's
lovedness. You see the Dutch in Kansas
City yesterday. You seen the pictures of
that.
>> Oh my. It's been the best thing to
watch. I have to say, just like all the
Europeans here, I also, you know, that
whole narrative of like, oh, Americans
are so wealthy, everything's so
expensive here. They're all going to
Europe for the summer.
>> The opposite's happening. I'm I'm
shocked.
>> Seeing Europeans fall in love with
America and America fall in love with
European football fans. It's pretty
cool.
>> Agree. And also like the Norwegians have
been really good.
>> Rowing.
>> Yeah.
>> A lot of fantastic scenes across this
country and more still to come over the
next several months, several weeks. Up
next on the program, claiming total
control of Hormuz.
>> The straight is open. Uh yesterday they
took out 19 million barrels of oil.
That's the most in the history of the
strait. And the oil prices are dropping
like a rock.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Bloomberg's
Tyler Kendall live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
4 days no gains on the S&P 500 this
morning pulling back by 0.5. It could
become day five. We're down 1% on the
NASDAQ 100 this morning. Negative by 1.1
yesterday. Not great for Apple. Apple
down by something like 6%. Down double
digits in June. Microsoft, similar
story. Microsoft softer yesterday, down
more than 20% so far this month,
attempting to pass on higher cost. This
market rejecting that effort.
>> One of the things that I've been really
interested in is the fingerpointing
about who's responsible for this. Um
Micron uh one of the executives gave an
interview with the Wall Street Journal
saying this is they didn't name Apple
but essentially this is Apple's fault
because when prices were rock bottom in
2023 they were insisting that they also
pay rock bottom prices so we couldn't
make new investments. I wonder how many
of these tech players are going to learn
from those scars and maybe we don't get
that cyclical pricing anymore for these
memory chips.
>> Apple this morning up by 0.4%. Let's
turn to the bond market. Twos 1030s as
of yesterday twos were down for three
consecutive sessions. That's the longest
run we've seen on a yield basis going
back to April. Make it day four. It
becomes the longest since January. We've
had a reset here. We're down to about
4.1% on the 2-year. But that rate hike
conversation is not going anywhere.
>> And Bank of America still has three rate
hikes pencled in for their forecast,
which has been a big topic of
conversation. The idea of a rate hike
not necessarily being batted away from
any of the recent speakers too. Um Scott
Bessant not necessarily batting it away
either. So it still remains alive and
present. It's still being priced in at
least one in this market. Speaking of of
reset, check out crude. It's just
amazing to see. Every time I see it's in
the 60s on WTI, just to get your head
around this 69 on WTI and wiping out a
wartime rally. I mentioned this
yesterday. It's an old cliche at Wall
Street. You want to make a fool of
someone, ask them for a forecast on
crude, right? And that's been a story of
the last 3 months.
>> What happened to all of these energy
experts who were saying at some point
the physical market's going to catch up
with the paper market. The straight of
Hormuse has been closed for too long.
Energy isn't flowing. Um, yeah, they've
I don't want to say been made a fool of,
but that hasn't that hasn't come true. I
mean, it is remarkable to look at this.
>> Brent Crude, 72 WTI 69 under
surveillance this morning, claiming
total control of homeless.
>> They want to make a deal with us very
badly and uh we probably will. I think
we will, but the straight is open. Uh,
yesterday they took out 19 million
barrels of oil. That's the most in the
history of the straight. And the oil
prices are dropping like a rock. And you
know, as goes oil, so goes everything
else.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president touting the free flow of crude
through the straight of Form as an
attack on a container ship undermines
efforts to restore traffic through the
crucial waterway. With the latest, Tyler
Kendall joins us for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
>> Hey, John. Good morning. Well, a White
House official tells us that the US is
looking into which party is responsible
for this attack, including whether it
was ordered by the highest levels of the
IRGC or perhaps was a rogue decision by
lower level personnel. For now, it
doesn't appear to have totally derailed
the reopening process in the straight as
new data analyzed by Bloomberg News
still shows that chips are continuing to
transit through. Although it does risk
of course undermining commercial
shippers confidence as we heard from the
UN's global shipping regulator yesterday
that they're actually going to pause
evacuation operations until there's more
clarity around this attack and Iran is
still maintaining that ships still need
their permission in order to transit
through. Just yesterday we saw at least
three super tankers reportedly turn
around after they had orders from the
Iranian Navy not to cross. Now, the US
Secretary of State Marco Rubio was asked
about this by reporters overnight. He
said that any deal where Iran tries to
maintain control or charge fees or uh uh
tolls in the straight would not be
acceptable to the US. But John, it's
very clear that it is on the mind of
Iran because just yesterday we got this
report from the Wall Street Journal that
the country estimates that it could make
$40 billion a year in revenue if it
charges tolls related to what is being
called navigational or environmental
services. And not just that, the
reporting goes on to say that Iran is
considering asking other countries in
the Middle East and maybe even China if
they would be willing to share in on the
costs and the profits of any such
system.
>> Tyler Kendall, thank you. Tyler down in
Washington DC. There is a political
question. We'll spend some time on that
in the next hour. There is a market
question. The market at the moment does
not care how the energy moves just so
long as the energy moves. And crude at
the moment is moving as follows. We're
down by 3% on the session. WTI back to
69. Brent at 72. And maybe the most
provocative quote of the week actually
came from Torson Sllock over at Apollo
who wrote the following. The narrative
in markets is changing from lower oil
prices mean lower inflation to lower oil
prices mean more demand in an already
overheating economy which means higher
inflation. Cam Dawson of New Edge Wealth
still with us. Cam, what's your reaction
to that quote from Torston this week?
>> Oh, I mean this idea that potentially
the savings from gas prices could fuel
spending in other areas and drive higher
inflation. It's possible. Well, I mean,
look, you're going into an environment
where you had this shock to consumers
because of higher gasoline prices. And I
think it's important to note gasoline
prices are still 30% above where they
were prior to the war. So, you don't
have the same kind of reaction function
that you have in paper paper oil prices,
but you had the shock to gasoline
prices, which has been somewhat offset
because of OBB, meaning tax cuts have
really allowed consumers to continue to
spend. And what we see from the data and
from different banks is that consumers
are spending these tax cuts really,
really rapidly. And look at the redbook
retail sales data. Redbook retail sales
is accelerating. And maybe that's
because of some catch up where people
were pausing some spending as oil prices
were rising a lot, but it's running at
its fastest pace since 2022. So this is
really notable that even though we're
talking about a period of negative real
wage growth, you still have accelerating
retail sales. And I think the last
question that's raised in all of that is
how much of this is driven by the wealth
effect with very strong margins. So or
very strong markets. So if you have a a
shutter in markets, could you see that
get hit?
>> I think that's such an interesting
question because we have seen household
wealth it expo that exposure to equity
markets be at an all-time high. What is
the level in which you'd start to get
worried that that wealth effect is
turning negative that you have enough of
a decline in equity markets that that
brings the thing that sort of dampens
consumer spending? It's not just the
level, it's the duration. Because if you
have a short sharp correction of a 20%
like we had in liberation day or coming
out of the start of the war and you
don't and you have a very quick rebound,
what effectively happens is you don't
have statement shock because you have to
have that statement shock at the end of
the month or the end of the quarter to
go, "Oh my gosh, I have a lot less money
than I thought I did. I need to tighten
the belt." But because we have seen
rapid declines and then very rapid
rebounds in markets, that's effectively
meant that any volatility that we have
has been stomached very well from a
wealth effect perspective. Is it worse
this time though? Because not only are
we thinking about just your plain
vanilla equity markets, people owning
like the S&P 500 fund for example, but a
SpaceX IPO that had so much retail
interest, uh, poly market, betting
markets, the casinoification of anything
just given the amount of different
financial instruments that retail
investors are now participating. Does
this make the problem all the much
worse?
>> I would add to all of those examples the
huge surge in leverage that we have seen
and that leverage is coming from
multiple areas. It's not just FINRA
margin loan balances which we know are
at a record but it's also options
activity. Long call options uh have
surged higher. It's also leveraged ETFs.
If you look at leverage ETF flows,
they've been absolutely enormous. And
it's not just in the US. We're hearing
huge signs of leverage out of Taiwanese
investors, out of South Korean
investors, South Korean investors
cashing in on life insurance in order to
buy more semiconductor stocks. So, there
is a ton of leverage that has been put
into this market in order to chase the
rally. And we know that leverage cuts
both ways. It's really fun on the
upside, but it's a lot more painful on
the downside.
>> Do you think it's beginning to
contribute to volatility?
>> I think so. I I think that that's one of
the reasons why we're seeing this
amplification of downside moves. And I
think the really big test is that if we
get to resistance, something or support
like a 50-day moving average, and we
break through it resolutely, we break
through the next one, then we could
actually start to see more of a
deleveraging. And one of the reasons why
we've said, look, you have to respect
the uptrend in the market. That 50-day
moving average has held so well since
the since the April lows or the March
lows, and we've seen dip buyers continue
to step in. The big question is are is
there still money on the sidelines in
order to be dip buyers? I'd say
potentially yes from institutions. You
had an outflow from equities uh this
week you from the Bank of America data.
But also look at the Deutsche Bank
consolidated equity positioning. It's in
the 42nd percentile. So as much as
retail is all in on this market,
institutions are very much sitting on
the sidelines just being neutral.
>> Cam, it's good to see you. Appreciate
your time as always. Cam Dawson there of
New Edge Wealth. The amount of leverage
being taken in South Korea. Have you
read some of those stories? terrifying.
Yeah, I mean retirees looking at cashing
in things, but here in the US also these
leverage ETFs like two times micron or
whatever, there's been a lot of chatter
that they're now having a hard time
finding banks who are willing to take
the counterparty risk because these
things have just shot up. So, they're
using weird options. It's increasing
some of the tracking volatility. It's
strange times in these levers.
>> Things can move south quickly and take
on a life of their own in those kind of
situations. Coming up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Sarah Kun
of Cleo Capital as OpenAI weighs a delay
of its IPO. Plus, Yihara is with us.
She's got your morning movers. Memory
stocks falling on new fears for demand.
Micron this morning down 5%.
Four days no gains on the S&P 500.
That's the longest such run going back
to the middle of March. We might extend
it. We're down this morning by 0.5. On
the NASDAQ 100, we're down by more than
one full percentage point. These moves
come on a week where we've seen a series
of upgrades to price targets on the S&P
500 from Wells Fargo, from Barclays,
from JP Morgan, from Sockjen, lifting
their price target to 8K. Manish Cabra
saying stronger and more persistent
earning cycle. the story behind that
move. But ultimately, who's getting the
earnings? Who's got the margins right
now? And it's that number of companies
getting smaller and smaller.
>> 86% margins for Micron is what they're
expecting in the fourth quarter. That's
good news for them and bad news for
everyone else. And the earnings could be
good for all these other companies, but
it's the year's out. It's the terminal
value. And at the end of the day, that's
how you price stocks. It is not the
earnings today. It's the earnings in the
future. And how do you calculate that
exactly what the return on these massive
investments from the hyperscalers?
>> Quite a volatile week. Seen much of this
in South Korea again here states side.
NASDAQ futures for now see if it changes
but for now down by more than one
percentage point. Daniel and I have
already talked about the bond market but
it's worth going over once again. We
haven't seen a 4-day streak of lower
yield at the front end of the curve
since the start of the year. The 2-year
down by three basis points this morning,
4.09%.
Now, just maybe maybe we're starting to
see a recoupling between this market
right here and this market right here,
which is the commodity market, because
we have had a real break lower in crude
prices, wiping out the wartime rally.
WCI back to about 69. Brent crude, you
switch up the board into the low70s.
Brent crude this morning at 72. We're
down by close to 4%.
>> It is remarkable that we were able to
take 5 million barrels a day of oil off
the market and the economy is fine.
Maybe part of what we're seeing here is
this acknowledgement that we don't need
as much supply as we really need. So if
you start to get ships that traverse the
straight of Hormuse again, what are we
talking like $50 a barrel, maybe even
lower, the world doesn't need as much
crude as maybe we originally thought and
their stock piles, yes, those will need
to be refilled, but we have coped
remarkably well.
>> Brent crude this morning down by close
to 4%, three hours away from the cash
open. The opening bound just around the
corner. Let's get you some morning
movers. Some single names. Yhira has
more. Hey, Yhira.
>> Hi John. The memory and chip trade is is
faltering this morning. As you can see,
it started over in Asia with SKH Highix
under pressure. And now here in the
pre-market in the US, we are seeing
names like Micron and Nvidia uh both
falling in the pre-market as investors
increasingly worry about demand
destruction after we heard from Apple
and Microsoft that they are hiking
prices due to higher component costs,
fueling concerns about whether that
could eventually slow demand. And not
helping sentiment is that report that
OpenAI uh is potentially considering
delaying its IPO. Sticking with the chip
sector, we are seeing on semi under
pressure of falling nearly 13% in the
pre-market after it announced an all
stock $6 billion deal to buy this
company right here, Synaptics. But
investors clearly not convinced. Uh,
Synaptics is a company that supplies
chips for things like laptops and
smartphones. And reading through analyst
notes, what they're saying is that this
takes on semi further away from the data
center story, which has been what
investors of course have been buying
into. And we end on space with Rocket
Lab, though shares up 2% in the
pre-market. a rare bright spot in this
market. Um after this company won a few
uh won a new la NASA launch contract. It
comes after the stock fell some 25% this
week. Caught up in the selloff across
the space sector as sentiment soured
over SpaceX and its lofty valuation.
John
>> Yahara, thank you. More from Yahara in
the next hour. On our radar this
morning, our top story, SoftBank shares
plunging by the most since 2024
following a New York Times report. The
Open AI could delay its IPO until next
year. Soft Bank holding a roughly $65
billion stake in the AI giant.
Elsewhere, the race to succeed JP Morgan
boss Jamie Diamond Heating Cup, the
world's largest bank naming two new
co-presidents seen as top candidates for
the role with Diamond saying the changes
mark an important step around succession
planning. And finally, the Chicago Fed
President Austin Gorsby ready to move on
from forward guidance.
>> That sparse statement that is purged of
forward guidance has a bunch of the
financial analysts like ah what what
does this mean? We we're used to having
more information. I'm have always been
uneasy with the use of forward guidance
on a routine basis. Anytime you hear the
Fed officially making a prediction that
doesn't turn true, the credibility takes
a ding.
>> The Chicago Fed president signaling
support for Fed chair Kevin Walsh's
communications pivot going on to say he
doesn't hate the dot plot.
>> It's important to get this kind of talk
from other Fed officials because there
had been this concern and I know John,
you've talked about this. If you don't
get a Kevin Wars who gives forward
guidance, do the other FOMC members just
take his place? Do they come out with
really hawkish sentiment? Is that what
the market starts to pay attention to?
If you get other members on board with
this idea of you don't have forward
guidance, you curtail some of the
communication, then yes, Kevin Wars can
reach this aim of trying to think keep
things a little closer to his chest.
>> People are filling in the gaps. We've
talked about this numerous times, Danny.
I know you have too, that ultimately
because the Fed didn't offer much, the
Fed cheddar didn't offer much last week,
people have drawn their own conclusions
on what it all means. They're confusing
a potential change in style with a
potential change in policy. And we had a
Fed chair just last week, not just
reluctant to provide guidance, but also
reluctant to really articulate the
reaction function of the Federal
Reserve, which complicates things even
further, not just for the institution,
but for the people following the
institution. Well, part of the reason
that Feds past, I mean, you know, really
o over the past decade or so, have tried
to give more of a forward outlook is
because how the market reacts to the Fed
impacts financial conditions and
financial conditions impact economic
outcomes. So, if one is volatile, then
economic outcomes will also be volatile,
which is why you get this guiding hand
from the Fed. So, maybe if we're in a
different regime, you have to prepare
for that type of economic volatility.
>> The Fed chair has some time. It's early
days.
>> True. and he has some task force to
figure it out for him too.
>> Exactly. And maybe that offers them the
time they require before they have to
make any decisions. We'll see. The
two-year this morning down about three
basis points. As I said, it's a break of
4.1% at a front end of the yield curve.
Let's get back to that top story. Open
AAI reportedly wearing a delay to its IP
until next year. According to the New
York Times, advisers for the AI giant
are warning volatility in tech stocks
could dampen enthusiasm. Sarah Kun of
Cleo Capital writing, OpenAI has been
the sick man of the unholy trinity of
trillion dollar IPOs. They're bleeding
cash. Many of their business plans
haven't panned out and Sam Alman has
long been ambivalent about life as a
public company CEO. Sarah joins us now
for more. Sarah, welcome. A simple
question from me. First of all, do you
think this is an open AI problem or a
broader capital markets issue?
>> I think this is a Sam wants to go public
at a $1 trillion valuation problem. Um,
if you read that report, they're not
saying the IPO is necessarily a bad
idea. They're saying, hey, you have to
look at reality. You have to look at
where revenue is and take that IPO price
down for it to perform well and Sam says
a trillion or nothing. And so it looks
like they might delay.
>> Sarah, do you think the capital markets
backdrop though is making it more
difficult? The fact that Alphabet got
out and got out so quickly with a
massive equity capital raise that SpaceX
came first and they have this slightly
confusing as you've put it staggered
lock up over the next six months as well
that might disrupt capital markets too.
A
>> absolutely. uh you know you generally in
a sort of frothy environment want to be
an earlier IPO uh as more and more IPOs
happen it's likely anthropic if they
decide to go public this year will go
public you know faster than than OpenAI
can um and so you end up being sort of
at the tail end um all of that sort of
excited manic um you know main street
energy has already gone into other names
where they're maybe getting burnt a
little bit because it is normal after
the initial IPO pop to see a pullback
and and we know that we're in this
K-shaped economy with sort of this shaky
consumer. We know that that Wall Street
is sort of less of a buyer of some of
this stuff because they already have
loads of exposure, you know, from what
they've been doing in in the private
markets. And so, you know, it it's a
tough time to go public under the best
of circumstances and when the whole goal
is to get this historic number, uh that
makes it really difficult. Relatedly
Sarah, in the Times story when they laid
out how their advisers were talking to
OpenAI, they said to them post SpaceX,
you're not going to find enthusiasm from
retail owners for retail investors for
its shares. Sarah, does that underscore
just how important of a force retail
investors have become for these AI
giants as they consider IPOs?
>> I I don't think it's for AI giants. I
think it's for companies that want to
feel a little bit like a meme stock. uh
when you look at open AI and the frenzy
around it and the excitement and the
sort of fanaticism um it doesn't feel as
much like an analyst reading you know
SKH reports as it does the GameStop
glory days and so I think that they were
depending on that frenzy uh to be able
to give them a valuation that doesn't
really make sense when you look at the
numbers and because that frenzy is dying
down around the AI trade in general um
and because there's there is backlash to
data centers. You know, we're not in
that same moment that we were in a
couple years ago when everybody thought
that AI was 100% good and would 100% go
to the moon. Um I I do think that that's
impacting their ability to go public.
>> And we have seen more government
involvement. Just on that point, Sarah,
there was an information story yesterday
that OpenAI has been asked to stagger
the release of their most recent model,
their most advanced one by the White
House in similar ways that Anthropic had
been asked to slow their roll out. How
difficult does that make these business
models if you do have a government
that's getting increasingly involved
chatter about taking taking stakes in
these companies or the ability to just
turn off a switch with some of the
models?
>> Yeah, I think that that certainly
doesn't make things easier. Um, you
know, it might not be all bad for for
Open AI uh to be seen as having a a
super powerful model simil similar to
anthropics mythos. So, I I wouldn't say
that it's 100% bad. I think Sam has very
consciously cultivated a very close
relationship with Trump and with the
White House uh and and certainly has
worked closely with them on Stargate and
other things. So, he wants to be on the
right side of this administration. Um
and I think he's willing to play ball,
but I do think that for the broader
market, you have to look and say, "Wait,
we're going to pay all this money for
this company because they're going to
sell these models to people unless they
wake up on a Tuesday and they can't."
and and that kind of uncertainty is not
really ideal.
>> Well, Sarah, let's get to the debate of
the moment for the whole AI ecosystem
and perhaps I can reduce it to the
performance of two names so far this
month. This month, Microsoft is down by
more than 20%. Microsoft Micron is up by
more than 20%. That's a 40 point plus
gap in performance for this month
between the companies doing the spending
and the companies receiving all their
spending. Sarah, how sustainable do you
think that is?
>> It doesn't really worry me. Um, I think
that that's actually the market sort of
kind of correcting itself, right? You
should, when you look at it, say, "Hey,
your prices are going up because you
have a lack of supply and really high
demand." And the people who need to buy
that product, obviously, we're a little
bit more worried about them. And so, I
think that that's a pretty healthy
market reaction. and that with the
Microsofts of the world, you're seeing
sort of a right sizing where there's
been this sort of irrational exuberance
over the last few years around Microsoft
mostly tied to their open AI bet. So,
you also have to look at that. If
sentiment around open AI is weakening,
you're going to see some of that in the
Microsoft price pull back too.
>> You don't expect to see a deceleration
in capex.
>> I think that we'll hear more and more
about that. The thing to remember over
the next few years is a lot of this
capex isn't quite real, right? These are
data centers that are going to be built.
Um these are not this is not money
that's necessarily already been deployed
uh in terms of the human cost, right? In
terms of these super expensive uh AI
hires, in terms of the M&A, all of that,
they can always pull back on that. They
can slow down on that. Um they can get
rid of people if they really need to.
And then on the other side, they can
decide that, hey, maybe we don't need
half of Ohio uh as a data center, right?
And and I wouldn't be surprised to see
some pullback on that development both
because of demand uh sort of weakening
as well as as local push back. You know,
one of the big things in the AI story
that we really have no idea about is how
many people are actually using it on a
regular basis. None of the big AI labs
uh break out those numbers to say here
is exactly how many daily users we have.
Here's exactly how many subscribers we
have and here's how sticky we think it
is. And so it could be that the demand
isn't skyrocketing the way people think
it is.
>> Interesting. Sarah, thank you.
Appreciate it. Sarah Kunster of Cleo
Capital. NASDAQ futures this morning
down by 1.2%. The S&P 500 negative still
by 0.5. With an update on stories
worldwide this morning with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Good morning. The death toll
is rising in Venezuela after
back-to-back earthquakes struck west of
Caracus. At least 188 people are now
confirmed dead, more than 1500 injured.
The government is creating an initial
fund of $200 million for repairs to
infrastructure, hospitals, and housing.
Samsung and SKH Highex are planning to
announce huge AI spending Monday. South
Korean media reporting Samsung Group
will announce a $646 billion spending
package over the next decade, the
largest plans in the country's history.
Heatwave in Europe is officially the
worst severe weather on record.
According to a new report, temperatures
this month were between 5 and 12° C,
above the seasonal averages across
France, Germany, Italy, Spain, and
southern England. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. Welcome to summer in
the '9s in Europe, as you've lived it.
It's very different to the '9s living
here in New York
>> because there's no infrastructure for
it. My flat in London did not have air
conditioning. Most don't. And so there's
like people would just go to the movie
theaters and just sit there for hours
because they're like, I need to find
something that has air conditioning.
>> Mine just had a little radiator, right?
And then you'd open the window,
>> right? Exactly. That's all you needed
>> and hope for the best. Yeah. It's not a
great strategy when the temperatures
that high. Up next on the program,
taming high inflation.
>> There's been a kind of a disturbingly
high component of services inflation. I
do think it's worth keeping an eye on
that. Up next, we'll catch up with
Claudia S of New Century Advisers live
from New York City. You're watching
Bloomberg Surveillance.
So, this is a struggle once again on the
tech side of things. taking down the
NASDAQ by more than 1% on the S&P 500
down by 0.5 on the Russell which is why
you've seen a lot of outperformance
through much of the year. The Russell
this morning also on the back foot we're
negative.6%.
Want to compare two asset classes just
briefly. We've done this a few times
already this week. I think it's worth
doing again. Check out the bond market.
Yields down for four straight days at
the front end of the curve. So twos have
reset to about 4.1%. But twos are still
about 70 basis points higher than they
were before this war started. whereas
crude has completely reversed the gains.
How much more work is there still to do
there or how independent is the rate
hike debate from this screen? Brent
crude this morning 72 Danny WTI at 69.
>> Well, there there are different
possibilities for this. For one, oil and
treasuries have been decoupled because
we're now paying attention to the Fed
and we've interpreted the weeding the
meeting the other week as hawkish. The
other one and you brought this up is
Torsten lock that by having lower energy
prices you have consumers who are
willing to spend more and that in itself
pushes up inflation. So the relationship
between the two have flipped
>> so you can afford the new Mac or the new
Xbox.
>> Sure. Yeah. You can pay 20% more cuz
your gas pump is
>> just keeps going up in price. Crazy.
Unless this morning taming high
inflation.
There's been a kind of a disturbingly
high component of services inflation
which isn't really from oil prices. It
isn't really from tariffs.
Why is it high? Historically, that's a
pretty persistent type of inflation. So,
I do think it's worth keeping an eye on
that.
>> So, here's the latest this morning. The
Chicago Fed President Austin Gorsby
warning core inflation is heading in the
wrong direction as new Fed President
John Williams forecast the central bank
won't reach his 2% target until at least
2028. Cl of New Centry Advisor writing,
"The critical question is what it will
take to get back to 2% and the
distribution of price changes that add
up to headline inflation now offers some
clues about the trend." Claudia joins us
now for more. Claudia, always a
pleasure, privilege to catch up with you
and talk about these trends. Let's pick
up on that last line. What are the clues
right now that offer you an idea about
where this is going?
>> Right. Well, I think it's useful. You
know, people say, "Oh, the inflation
data, it's backward-looking." And
certainly May inflation does not pick up
all of what we've learned in June about
the negotiations in the Middle East and
energy prices coming down. But in those
inflation data are a wealth of
information about various price changes
in the economy. The BA publishes almost
180 price series. So we can go in and
look at what are the big price
increases, what are the big price
decreases. A lot of times outliers don't
stick with us in terms of, you know,
staying with inflation over time and
then what's that, you know, that core of
inflation. What's the central piece?
Austin Goulsby talked about it as the
through line, like the part of inflation
that'll keep going. And so I think
there's a lot in the data that can
potentially, you know, give signs about
where inflation is headed. And that is
very important for the Fed because if
they think it's headed back towards 2%,
they may not need to do a lot more. If
they don't think it's headed back to 2%,
then that's where they potentially need
to step in with rate increases.
>> Are you convinced it's heading back to
2%.
>> No, I'm I'm not convinced. Well, I think
the other piece that
should be coming out more in the Fed
discussions is this the patience, right?
Like how long does it take to go to 2%.
In the clips you were showing, Williams
was giving the very standard kind of,
oh, in two years, by 2028. But I'm not
sure when most people heard in the
statement, this committee will deliver
price stability that they're like, oh,
2% in 2028, that's what we're talking
about, right? Like they may want
something if they want 2% much more
quickly, like say next year, that's
probably going to take some more extra
effort from the Fed, some rate increases
from the Fed. I do think this being at
4% inflation, I think there is an
important piece of that that is
temporary with the energy prices, but
this question of like, have we settled
in at 3% versus the 2%, I think that one
is a lot harder to answer and we we may
be something closer uh closer to 3%.
>> Claudia, is it then troubling to have a
Fed chair who wants to remake the Fed by
introducing these task force? Many
people have pointed to them and saying
it allows for cankicking that you don't
need to make decisions until we get the
conclusion of what these committees put
together. Claudia, is it a problem? Does
that play for time then translate into
missing the window for critical interest
rate hikes?
>> Well, the Fed should be able to walk and
chew gum at the same time, right? Like
there's a lot of questions about what
they should do with monetary policy.
There's a lot of tools about how to look
at the inflation distribution, the
different groups. I mean, the Fed has
just a multitude of measures of how to
look at inflation. They don't need a
task force to measure inflation, but a
task force might unlock some other
ideas. Throw some more ideas into the
hopper. Like, I'm I I think the task
force have some potential upside. I
don't think we should put too much uh,
you know, weight on them and that
they're going to really figure out like
the piece to get us to 2%, but there's
not much harm done it. And while those
task force are happening and they seem
to be, as Kevin Moore described them,
mainly like external and some staff, the
committee itself can be fullon doing
what they've been doing, try to wrap
their heads around what's happening with
inflation, what's happening with the
labor market, and uh what they should do
with monetary policy. We just probably
aren't going to see as much of it out in
the open um because we're on the task
force on communication. But I I I don't
think this is really holding up the Fed
in terms of their process. Well, on that
last note, Claudia, you point to
something of this idea of private
access, something that everyone has
always throughout history tried to get
from Fed officials. Is it different this
time though if the public access starts
to dwindle?
>> So, I think it's just we're going to
have a lot more noise, a lot more
uncertainty,
uh, and that will probably weather
through that. This may not be a big deal
trying, you know, the guessing game of
what does the Fed mean? Why what are
they going to do? I I don't think I I
don't see the merits of this. Like this
is not the way I would approach it, but
I think we can push through it. I think
what's very important is that uh Kevin
Worsh as he pulls in the amount of
public information, he needs to be very
careful that the entire committee is
pulling in any kind of private
information that is coming out of the
Fed because that would be the absolute
worst scenario where you have some real
ethics issues where the information does
get out but it doesn't get out broadly.
Claudia, you've been on both sides of
the wall inside the Fed watching the
Fed. If you had free reign at the
institution and you could readjust
adjust the communication apparatus over
at the Federal Reserve, what would you
change? What would you get rid of?
>> Oh goodness. Now I I So I have been, you
know, in the time that I was at the Fed,
I started in 2007. I watched a Fed that
became more transparent, more speaking
to the public. I do think it's very
important for accountability sake that
the public that Congress really
understands what the Fed is doing, why
they're doing it, and sometimes that
means it's going to be clear they've
made a mistake, right? Like if you show
your work, sometimes it'll be clear
you've made a mistake. So I think the
accountability piece is so important. I
think this fine-tuning of how the Fed
gives information so markets can
understand it and and can help the Fed
do its job. Like that's part of works
through financial markets. There's lots
of fine-tuning. The dot plot is not a
perfect tool in any way, shape, or form,
but the spirit of it, I think, has some
real merit. So, I think there's a lot of
fine-tuning, but I I worry that it's
very easy to delete things, delete
tools, but that doesn't necessarily move
the ball forward in terms of improving
kind of the goal setting, improving the
the transparency, the communication.
>> Claudia, it's good to see you as always.
Thank you. Claudia S there of New
Century Advisers. Is there addition and
subtraction when it comes to improving
communication at the Federal Reserve
>> again? But the the whole the whole thing
of this is we have to wait, right? Like
we don't know what the task force are
going to come up with. So it might just
be deletion. Maybe we do get some
additional fun tools to add to our belt.
>> I just sense we go into a different
world where we have a very different
cadence for news conferences at this
institution
>> which you've sat through a lot. So maybe
that isn't the worst thing.
>> Yeah, I think a lot of people have sat
through a lot of those and wondered
whether we should be having them every
single meeting. Up next, Alex Alman of
Barclays and a whole lot more from New
York City. The second hour of Bloomberg
surveillance just around the corner.
>> I do think inflation right now is
underestimated as a risk.
>> There is more inflation in the system
outside of energy.
>> You kind of need to see core PC running
2 or below for the Fed to feel more
comfortable.
>> The case for monetary policy becoming a
bit tighter is pretty compelling to me.
Those expectations around Fed policy are
going to continue to jump around.
>> This is Bloomberg surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The second hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now.
And your scores, the price action looks
like this. Equity futures negative.
We're down by 0.5 on the S&P. We've gone
four days without gains and it could
become day five. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by 1.2%. Check out Micron. What a
strange situation. Micron this morning
is down by 5% in the pre-market. 85%
margins. A problem for everybody else
and because it's a problem for everybody
else. It's a problem also for Micron
this morning.
>> I but like this thing also maybe is just
because South Korea has had a bad day
and a lot of the traders there maybe are
exposed to Micron. It is just wild that
on the same exact print you can get
Micron surging nearly 60%. And again on
the same story Apple falling by 6%. It
just feels like there's this really
messy process happening in markets right
now as we try to figure out exactly how
these business models are working and
who's winning and who's not.
>> We spent the last hour talking about it.
It is the debate of the moment in
financial markets. You saw Microsoft try
and pass on higher costs. Stock hits saw
the same thing with Apple in yesterday's
session as well. The spenders, the
hyperscalers have been hammered all
month. in fact for the last several
months for the likes of Meta and
Microsoft and this major wealth transfer
in fact one of the biggest wealth
transfers we've ever seen in financial
market history from one group of names
to another and we're all trying to
figure out how sustainable that actually
is. I also think one of the things
that's worth paying attention to kind of
goes back to the start of the year, but
is are these open- source models? Cuz
part of this conversation has also been
if you're an enterprise company, are you
really going to want to pay up for how
expensive this AI is? And there's been
reporting that the use of these Chinese
open-source models has skyrocketed and
that makes it all the more harder for
these hyperscalers to justify their
spending because you don't need all
those data centers if you're using more
efficient open source models.
>> Does it make it harder to IPO? The
latest reporting from the New York Times
suggesting that maybe Open AAI is going
to delay that IPO into next year. Simple
question, OpenAI problem or broader
capital market story
>> or maybe Sam Alman problem because he
really wants a $1 trillion valuation
when he goes to market. But it's hard
not to extrapolate something for the
broader market just because we came from
this monstrous SpaceX IPO. And when you
get the price declines and the
volatility you've just got from SpaceX,
it doesn't make it as appealing to come
to market because those investors have
just gotten burned from SpaceX.
>> And they are not the only ones. We've
had an Alphabet equity capital raise. I
mentioned SKH Highix in a previous hour
as well. I also mentioned that the SKH
30 billion effort to raise capital
through ADRs would be one of the biggest
capital raising efforts ever on the
equity side in the US, which just gives
you an idea of the sums, the numbers
we're talking about with regards to the
capital race right now. Are we going to
get less of that? Is the confidence of
companies to come to the market going to
start to dwindle? Because at the end of
the day, they areing competing for a lot
of the same institutional capital.
>> Futures this morning on the equity side
of things negative by 0.5% on the S&P
500. Next week, we won't be talking
about tech. We'll be talking about tech.
We'll also be talking about payrolls
next week. Payrolls Thursday. Now,
payrolls Friday. Worth making a note of
that going into next week. data so far
this week at the index level headline
level been pretty decent which is why
that rate hike debate is still alive and
well
>> which is by the way while you've seen
this stock market volatility all the
other markets pretty calm I mean
treasuries starting to decline those
yields but not really moving that much
oil markets have been really benign the
volatility has really been secundered to
one part of this market everything else
has been more stable because of the
equity uh because of the market data
>> on the bond side of things yields coming
in three or four basis points twos at
the moment about 4.08% 08%. Coming up
this hour, we'll catch up with Alexman
of Barclays on why a negative narrative
might be brewing. Eddie Fishman of the
Council on Foreign Relations following
an attack on a container vessel in the
Straight of Hormuz and Jonathan Kinsky
of BTIG on why he's expecting additional
downside risk for the AI trade. We begin
this hour with stocks falling, failing
to find a firmer footing as big tech
concerns continue to grow. Alex Alman of
Barclay's writing, "I cannot be the only
one whose spidey sense is tingling that
at the margin there is a more negative
narrative brewing around this beloved
theme." Alex joins us now for more.
Alex, good morning. Good to see you.
>> Good morning.
>> What are you worried about?
>> Uh, okay. So, there's really two things.
There's there's a narrative which I
think at the margin is shifting and we
we've touched on that already this
morning. Uh, the other one is the
technicals and I I want to focus on the
technicals because I don't think there's
going to be many individuals talking
about this right now. So um in the
market we've had this massive
accumulation of lev ETF assets under
management. So effectively products that
are multiplying factors. So you buy one
unit of it and it's buying multiple
units of whatever that underlying is.
And the AUM assets under management of
that domestically is now swelled to
around about 200 $220 billion. In Asia
it's swelled to around about $50
billion. Um and the reason it's so
interesting is because the bulk of this
swelling has come through the tech
sector. So it's within semiconductors
and NASDAQ. And if you think about
that's really captured the zeitgeist of
the market. So as money has flowed into
this narrative, it's been accelerated
through the purchases of these levered
ETFs. Now the reason why that's
interesting is because when those ETFs
need to rebalance on a day-to-day basis,
we get significant excess volatility.
We're creating almost a short gamma
profile to the market. So moves go up
that go up are exacerbated higher and
moves down are exacerbated lower. you
increase the volatility and we think
that's been fueling some of the rally up
cumulatively these led ETFs have bought
$300 billion of of of stuff mostly in
the semiconductor and the and the US
index space but of course the largest
single stock led ETF on the planet SKHEX
out in Korea.
>> So let's get out to Korea just describe
some of the technicals developing in
South Korea at the moment with regards
to the backdrop you just described.
>> Right. So I mean again we sort of go
back to this idea that you've had this
huge accumulation of Levit ETF within
SKH Highex the it sits out in Hong Kong
specifically as a single stock. You've
got individuals uh uh posting on social
media that and they're wearing the vest
of the uh of the particular ticker of
this led ETF. And so it's sort of again
remind reminiscent of that euphoria that
we saw say in gold at the beginning of
the year when you had pictures of people
taking photos of cues around the corner
of people trying to buy bullion. It's
the and the same with silver
>> and cashing in their insurance plans
based on some of the reporting we've
seen to do some of this.
>> We've heard anecdotes of that as well
though I can't confirm it but the point
being is is that it's an illustration of
a significant amount of retail excess.
And you know we've seen pockets of this
before. We saw it in the Cosby earlier
in the year. We saw it in silver at the
beginning of the year. Generally these
things don't end particularly well. And
it's very much reminiscent of what
happened with the um the levered VIX
products back at the beginning of 2018.
you remember you had this huge
accumulation of shortv strategies. This
is different. It's not shortv in the
traditional sense. It's more the fact
that you've just got leverage. It's good
oldfashioned leverage that's hidden
within an ETF. And as a consequence of
that, the more that things begin to
move, the more excess volatility it's
going to create from rebalancing.
>> Alex, is this you calling for a
Volmageddon 2.0?
>> I'm not calling for a Volmageddon 2.0,
Oh, but what I what I would definitely
say is is that if there is a shift in
narrative, small shifts in narrative in
AI and again we've talked about that
whether it's from IPOs potentially
getting delayed or whether there's um
you know the token maxing in in reversal
or price cuts or frontier versus uh
versus open source models. These small
changes in narrative can have much more
dramatic price moves. And I think that's
really what we need to focus on is that
you can have remember I'm a big believer
that that narrative follows price and
flow, right? So what we're really
talking about here is price and flow.
And it's the narrative that people can
suddenly change very quickly. Just on
the one more point on on the technicals
in these leverage ETFs, there has been
some chatter around for example um SO
XL, one of the big uh ETFs that is like
three times leverage, the Philadelphia
semiconductor index, some other ones
too, that banks on the other side aren't
willing to give them the swaps. They're
struggling to find some of the
counterparty risk and they're turning to
more options. They're turning to unique
ways to try to construct these ETFs.
What happens when you get these oddities
and how these ETFs are being put
together? Is that very much so like a
problem for these ETF um providers or
can it have wider spillover effects into
the market?
>> I think it's more of a a fund uh a
specific issue to the ETF providers. At
the end of the day, they issue a
prospectus which kind of assures their
investors or they attempt to match the
performance of the prospectors. So if
they don't match that performance, then
obviously they're on they're on the hook
so to speak. But there's there's a lot
of leeway in terms of if they don't
match it, they just effectively do as a
best effort. But I think the key point
here is is that you highlight if they
cannot get access to the prime prime
balances or the leverage through the
traditional measures and they're forced
into the options market. All it's doing
is creating a significant uh theta
decay. There's a time decay of those
options which is going to drag on the
performance. So again it just may be a
case of investors aren't necessarily
getting exactly what they signed up for.
I don't think it creates systemic issues
so to speak. I think this is more just a
case of if we have again a change in
narrative within the AI story and I
again at the margin I think we are
seeing that it can create exacerbated
moves both to the top side which I think
we did see within the memory story and
and and possibly to the downside as
well.
>> So you can go from mount up to mount
down. It's one of the reasons you're
tactically bearish. One of the reasons
or the reason you're tactically bearish.
>> It's one of the reasons. So I wouldn't
say it's exclusively that's I I I think
there's a narrative reason as well why
we're tactically bearish and that that's
that's partly driven by the fact that
you know we have our quantitive
framework which is sort of got a bunch
of inputs that's sort of giving a
warning. Uh but then you've also just
got this AI shift as well and narrative
which I I just don't think is
necessarily been fully appreciated. AMD
at the beginning of the week they came
out with a desktop PC that they claim
can can take away a lot of the
processing requirement of from data
centers. You've got price cuts, you
know, the things that we've already
talked about, you know, and also the
fact that people are using 28 2029
forecasts as a reason to still be
bullish, a deeply cyclical sector such
as memory is just a bit of a warning
shot in our opinion. So there is a
narrative, but I'm not going to lose
sight of the fact that yes, this is a
very technical message.
>> If there was a space from a fundamental
perspective putting this all together to
get long given these developments right
now, where do you see a pocket of
opportunity in equities away from the
tactical bearishness?
>> So there's two parts, right? And the
first one is quality. I think quality's
had one of the worst draw downs in its
history. If you just think about it from
a factor perspective, some of that may
be within the hyperscaler narrative. I
mean, if you're a hyperscaler and you're
spending over 50% of your entire capex
budget on memory doesn't strike us as a
particularly sensible investment
decision. So actually, could the
hyperscalers be bending the capex curve
in the future? That would actually could
that be quite positive for those that
cohort of stocks. So that's a quality
trade. The other one is commodities. I
really want to get back to this
commodity story. It's had a bit of a gut
check recently and the reason it's so
interesting is that strategic autonomy
narrative that we started the year
thinking about US and China decoupling.
remember that rare earth all this kind
of stuff and then also the Iranian story
as well when on the on the crude side
the need to have your strategic
petroleum petroleum reserves but also
reserves of everything right so if we're
moving into into a world of strategic
autonomy then owning commodities I still
think is a very interesting thing
>> how should I own them through energy
players through miners through the
actual commodities how should I own them
>> so we really like the miners and the
reason is is that there's only $1.4 4
trillion dollars of global market cap
sounds like a lot but that's basically
the size of a memory company these days.
So actually the availability the
scarcity of these commodities equities
is so interesting because quite frankly
if you want to play the theme as a large
institution there's actually not that
much equity you can buy.
>> Just a final question on tech. Can you
imagine a world not several years out
but in the next 12 months where both
hyperscalers and the chip players are
doing well? I can structurally I I know
I sound a little tactically bearish, but
structurally I'm I'm incredibly bullish.
>> The stocks, not the companies.
>> I I still think there are some going to
be some inevitable winners from this,
right? I I think in a world where we're
sort of somewhat focused on the ROI, we
have to believe that there's going to be
some ROI winners. And ultimately, we're
talking about from a hyperscaler
perspective, these are some of the best
capital capital allocators we've seen in
our lifetimes. You know, if you think
about these the bets that these guys
have made over the past 20 years, you
they're virtually faultless other than
arguably made maybe the meta metasphere,
whatever. But the the the point being is
is that do you really want to bet
against these guys over over the long
term over a cycle. So I I think there
will be some ROI winners and yes, some
of these hyperscalers I think will will
win.
>> Alex, good to see you as always. Thank
you, buddy. Appreciate it. Alex Alman
there of Barclays on this equity market.
Equity futures at the moment still near
session lows. Just a small bounce the
last few hours. went negative by 0.4% on
the S&P and on the NASDAQ down by around
1% with an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Fonnie Quinn has more. Hey, Vonnie.
>> Good morning, John. Yeah, just to recap
a little bit about what happened in that
volatile trading session across Asia.
The Cosby closing down nearly 6% after
triggering circuit breakers earlier in
the session. The Nicay losing more than
4%. many reasons. Those synthetic
products you've been talking about, of
course, month end obviously trading with
three days left in the month and maybe a
little bit of anxiety over those AI
trades. Volkswagen considering cutting
100,000 jobs and shuttering factories in
a push to become more competitive.
German magazine reporting VW's CEO
announced the proposal at a management
board meeting earlier this week.
And from Wimbledon to Wall Street, the
most decorated tennis star of all time
is taking on a new challenge.
NovakJokovic is joining General Atlantic
as the firm invests further in sports.
The firm plans to lean on Djokovic's
connections to push further into the
health and wellness sectors. And that's
your Bloomberg brief. John
>> Bonnie, thank you. It's great marketing,
isn't it?
>> Yeah.
>> You know, you hire him, we talk about
it, and everyone's talking about General
Atlantic.
>> Blackstone did the same thing with Tommy
Fleetwood. I mean, it's Jookovic
himself. He also has a partnership with
the Ammon. He's he's doing pretty well
for himself. He's like kind of it feels
like he's diversifying away from from
tennis a bit, which makes sense. 20
years ago. Do you remember R9 had an
internship at WPP with Sorrel? Am I
making that up? Like I feel like that
happened like 20 years ago.
>> You can do better than an internship.
Was it an internship?
>> I think it was something like that.
Google it. I would do that. Chat GBT.
Whatever your preference is these days,
depending on your generation. Up next on
the program, the presidential victory
lab.
>> The straight is open. Uh yesterday they
took out 19 million barrels of oil.
That's the most in the history of the
strait. And the oil prices are dropping
like a rock. Up next, we'll catch up
with Eddie Fishman of the Council on
Foreign Relations live from New York
City this morning. Good morning.
Welcome back to the program live from
New York. You're watching Bloomberg
Surveillance. Equity futures right now
pulling back by 0.5%.
We're down by more than 1% on the NASDAQ
100. Declines on crude once again this
morning. Brent down by 3%. Likewise on
WTI, 72 on Brent. WTI in the 60s once
again under Savylvanas this morning. A
presidential victory lap.
>> They want to make a deal with us very
badly and uh we probably will. I think
we will, but the straight is open. Uh,
yesterday they took out 19 million
barrels of oil. That's the most in the
history of the straight and the oil
prices are dropping like a rock. And you
know, as goes oil, so goes everything
else.
>> So here's the latest this morning. The
president touting the flow of crude
through the straight of Hormurs. This as
a container vessel was attacked,
undermining efforts to restore traffic.
Multiple networks reporting Iran
launched the strike. Bloomber's Tyler
Kendall has the latest from Washington.
Hey Tyler.
Hey, John. Well, a White House official
tells us that the US is looking into
whether this attack was ordered by the
highest levels of the IRGC or if it was
perhaps a rogue decision by lower level
personnel. But regardless, it does mark
the first such attack since the
memorandum of understanding was signed.
Though, for the most part, at least for
now, it doesn't seem to have totally
derailed the reopening of the straight.
However, some commercial shippers are
now reviewing their exit plans,
including one major company in Asia,
telling vessels that they should stay
put for now. According to a recent
message reviewed by Bloomberg News,
because new this morning, we saw Iran's
foreign minister post on X, reiterating
that any vessels that want safe transit
need to coordinate with the country.
Because yesterday, it wasn't just this
attack. We also saw at least three super
tankers have to turn around after
reportedly hearing warnings from the
Iranian Navy. Now, the US Secretary of
State when asked about all of this
reiterated the US's position is that
there cannot be a deal where Iran
maintains control or tries to impose
fees in the Strait of Hermuz. But John,
we know this isn't the only point of
contention at the moment as we are now
within this 60-day negotiating period.
We're tracking very closely President
Trump yesterday doubling down that Iran
could use unfrozen assets to buy US
agricultural purchases, which Iran has
denied. as yesterday the Trump
administration asked Congress for 11
billion dollar in assistance to US
farmers amid the supply crunch from the
war.
>> Tyler Kender with the latest in
Washington. Tyler, thank you. Eddie
Fisherman of the Council on Foreign
Relations writing, "Iran still has the
ability to disrupt traffic if ships
violate its wishes. Iran has shown that
a US adversary can weaponize a choke
point and then get paid to stand down.
Others will take note." Eddie joins us
now for more. Eddie, good morning. Good
to see you.
>> Yeah, nice to see you, too, John.
>> It's advertised in the following
fashion. No one's charging a toll. But
ultimately, aren't they being paid to
reopen the straight of us?
>> Oh, definitely. I mean, that is what
fundamentally theou is, right? If you go
back to 2015, the Iran nuclear deal, the
JCPOA, which a lot of people compare
this to, in that circumstance, the
United States imposed significant
economic pressure on Iran and pressured
Iran to give up concessions on this
nuclear program. What has happened in
2026, this year, is actually the
reverse. It's Iran by using its key
choke point. The straight of Hormuz has
imposed significant economic pressure on
us and has coerced us to give up
economic concessions. The way you know
that is that all the economic relief of
this deal is frontloaded before anything
on the nuclear side.
>> Your words, your language, others will
take note. Who are we thinking about?
>> Pretty much everyone. I mean because
again this is the second time that this
has happened in as many years. China did
the same thing last year with rare earth
elements. They they got us to backpedal
our policy on China by virtue of cutting
us off um from that key choke point. If
you're thinking about other countries
that could do similar things, I mean,
Indonesia is right at the top of the
list with the Strait of Mala. Their
government has already brought up the
possibility of imposing additional fees
at the strait. It's caused a lot of
agida in places like Singapore and
Malaysia. But that doesn't mean that
over time they won't reimpose this type
of thing. I think the Iranians came out
yesterday and said that um a toll at the
Straight of Hormuz could be worth $40
billion a year for the Iranian
government. any other government sitting
across one of these streets will see
that kind of a revenue and imagine what
they could provide for themselves too.
>> Do you think it will continue to work
for these other players who take note in
in your words if it is something that
looks like Indonesia? Are other
governments going to be okay with this
or does there reach a point that there
is enough of a push back that the system
becomes not viable?
>> That's the key question, Danny. I mean,
look, what uh Secretary of State Rubio
said yesterday, and I totally support um
his his position, is that if Iran is
allowed to charge a fee here, there's
going to be chaos, right? You're
undermining a core tenant of the
international system, which is that
waterways like the Straight of Hormuz
are free and open to international
commerce. So, I do think it will require
an international effort to stop this
from happening. I think the challenge is
since World War II that norm of free and
open commerce has been underwritten by
US military power and the US military
has just proven over the last four
months that we cannot physically force
the strait to be open. And so I guess
the question becomes now what are the
Iranians going to do? Are they going to,
you know, target neutral ships like that
Singaporean flag vessel yesterday that
defy it and you know take a channel
around Aman? Maybe don't uh don't pay
pay a toll. But if if they do, I'm not
really sure what we're going to do about
it.
>> Beyond the revenue from the toll, there
is this question of the hundreds of
billions of dollars that Iran is likely
getting with thisou um and where that
money goes to. The White House has said
it's going to go to things like US
agriculture. What do you make of this
pot of money and how it's likely to be
spent?
>> Yeah. So, so look, I I think the most
plausible way that this deal could be
funneled to buy agricultural commodities
is through the frozen assets that Iran
has. They've got tens of billions of
dollars of these frozen assets and
ostensibly through this deal, although
the White House has not fully provided
the details in this 60-day period, we're
going to provide at least 12 billion or
so to the Iranians. The question is, how
does that actually get channeled to buy
US agricultural commodities? So far,
we've seen no evidence that it will. And
the thing that makes me a little
nervous, frankly, that this this is more
rhetoric than reality, is if you look at
the one regulation that has come out,
which is the sanctions relief on Iranian
oil sales in this general license that
came out on Monday, there are no
restrictions whatsoever in terms of how
Iran can use that money. It actually
allows Iran even to collect the funds in
US dollars, which is something that the
United States has not provided Iran for
decades. Republicans used to criticize
Democrats for taking those frozen funds
and allowing them to do the same thing
to use it for humanitarian needs. But
ultimately the same criticism was
leveled at them that we should level at
Republicans too. If they're not using
that money for that, what are they using
the money for? If I've got excess
capital now to spend on humanitarian
needs, it means I've got additional
capital to spend on the other things
like sponsoring proxies. How do we
address that?
>> That's exactly right. Money is funible,
right? So, and and Iran does depend on
agricultural imports, right? They they
import grain, they import wheat, they
they import corn a lot actually soybeans
from Brazil, you know, a lot of the same
countries that we compete with. So
they're going to buy agricultural
commodities potentially from the United
States. And again, I haven't seen any
proof that that's going to happen. But
to your point, John, even if some of
that money is used for that, that frees
up additional resources to rebuild their
nuclear program to um supercharge their
missile program, which ostensibly now
the US is okay with um you know, per
comments by President Trump. So I
completely agree with you on that.
>> Sanctions failed. Operation Economic
Fury, if you look at this and how it's
played out failed. What are the lessons
from that?
>> Look, I think the key lesson from this
entire episode, right? You go back to
the sanctions under George W. Bush,
Barack Obama, and then uh and then now
under Trump and Operation Economic Fury
and Operation Epic Fury is that economic
pressure is a powerful tool, but it's a
limited one. And if you're trying to use
economic pressure, for instance, just to
curtail Iran's nuclear program. I
actually think that was a viable goal,
right? We had a deal on that in 2015.
It's probable Trump could have even had
a deal uh, you know, earlier this year.
If you're going for something more
maximalist like regime change, uh, I
think it's pretty unlikely and you're
going to wind up probably on a slippery
slope to the use of military force.
>> Eddie, appreciate your time as always,
buddy. Thank you. Eddie Fishman there of
the Council on Foreign Relations and of
course the author of I think the most
timely book release I've ever seen,
Choke Points, American Power in the Age
of Economic Warfare. Coming up on the
program, Jonathan Kinsky of BTI on why
he's expecting additional downside risk
for the AI trade. Plus, Yahihara is back
with us with your morning movers.
Soaring prices coming back to bite some
of the chip makers from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
The volatility makes a comeback in the
tech sector. We've got the Nasdaq down
by 1.2%, the S&P 500 down by 0.5, the
small cap struggling as well. We're down
by6. Lots of single name level stories
to talk about. Many of them are in the
tech sector with your morning movers
this morning. Yahara has more. Hey,
Yahara.
>> Hi, John. After some wild swings this
week, we are seeing the memory and chip
trade faltering again this morning with
names like Micron and AMD falling in the
pre-market as investors grow
increasingly worried about demand
destruction after we heard from both app
from both Apple and Microsoft saying
that they are hiking prices due to
higher component costs of that is
fueling concerns that slower spending
may be ahead. And not helping sentiments
is this report out that OpenAI may be
considering delaying its IPO. Uh staying
on the chip sector, we are seeing on
semi falling uh adding to losses now
down more than 14% in the pre-market
after it announced an all stock $6
billion deal to buy this company right
here, Synaptics. Those shares uh
rallying, but investors clearly not
impressed by this transaction. Synaptics
makes chips for things like phones, uh,
smartphones and laptops. And what
analysts are saying is that this takes
on semi further away from the AI data
center story which investors have been
piling into. And we end on space with
Rocket Lab. Those shares are rallying uh
just up 1% in the pre-market after
winning a new NASA launch contract. But
it comes after this name was caught up
in the space selloff. is down some 25%
this week alone as investors start to
question SpaceX and its valuation. John
>> start to question everything this
morning at least. Yhari, thank you.
Appreciate it. On our radar this
morning, the president turning his
attention to the home front
>> and we have another one, a new market
coming up and that's called the lovely
country of Iran. We're going to be
taking some of their money and we'll
spend it and we're going to be buying
wheat, soybeans and corn, a lot of it. I
am pro-f farmer. We're never going to
let you down. We're never letting the
farmer down.
>> The president hosting farmers at the
White House maintaining Iranian funds
will be used to buy US goods. Trump also
requesting another 11 billion in aid.
Elsewhere, Samsung and SKH Highix
ramping up spending. South Korean media
reporting the chip makers are preparing
to announce new investments worth
hundreds of billions of dollars as soon
as Monday. Despite a recent pullback,
shares of Samsung and Skhinix have more
than doubled this year. And finally,
OpenAI considering holding off an IPO
until 2027. According to the New York
Times, bankers are warning that recent
volatility in tech stocks could hurt
enthusiasm from investors. The CEO, Sam
Alman, reportedly pushing advisers to
target a trillion dollar valuation. I I
was thinking about this in the context
of wider IPO markets because I was just
in Berlin for Super Return, one of the
biggest conferences for private capital
and I were I was asking people is SpaceX
a good thing for you or a bad thing for
you as you look to IPO your companies.
The resounding answer because they love
to be bullish is oh this is a great
thing. It's wonderful that this company
can come to market and it's received so
well by investors. That narrative
obviously turns on its head if the IPO
isn't a success. And that just shows the
danger of having this mega hyped up IPO
go before you go before open AAI go
before anthropic timing is important for
IPOs and is the window now shut because
of the volatility we're seeing.
>> We've all been following this race for
capital and by the way it's not just
happening in equity it's happening in
debt as well and you've been tracking
that too. It's starting to look like
just recently more of a competition for
capital and that's why I think this
story is important that they are coming
here late and by late I mean after
Alphabet after SpaceX after SKH highinex
thinking about raising 30 billion and
we've also lost I think our ability to
really internalize the size of these
numbers that the SKH effort to raise 30
billion through US ADRs as big as the
Aramco IPO and I've mentioned this a few
times already this morning I know it
might sound like a broken record but
these are some the biggest equity
capital raises we have ever seen in the
history of financial markets anthropics
still to come. No wonder the likes of
OpenAI who are on much shakier ground
right now based on reports when it comes
to financials and growth reports they're
on shakier ground. No wonder they're
talking about postponing this IPO.
>> Part of the problem though is we've been
spoiled by this narrative of there's
cash on the sidelines. There's so much
money that needs to be put to work.
Credit spreads will never widen because
there's so much money hunting from a
home. And I think so many people took
that to heart including these companies
who came to market. We are about to see
a shift. The supply demand dynamic is
about to turn on its head because of the
supply coming to market. Forget you know
just SK highex. What about SpaceX and
the amount of shares that are going to
be unlocked. These things are happening
to the market and I don't know if we've
fully digested to to exactly what you're
saying John. just the difference it
makes to have more supply when we've
been used to less companies going public
and to be starved of that kind of um um
equity issuance
>> and to get trillions of buybacks on top
of that as well. It's it's a real shift
developing. Let's talk about tech stocks
heading for a fifth straight day of
losses as AI faces a fresh set of
concerns. Jonathan Krinsky of Btig
writing the following. Whether or not we
rally in the short term, we continue to
see medium-term downside risk for the
tech AI trade. Jonathan joins us now for
more. Jonathan, welcome to the program.
you sit in a slightly different seat
technical so let's focus on that why do
you see this story turning the other way
from melt up maybe to melt down
>> hey Jonathan so I think you know to
let's from a starting point let's take a
walk down memory lane no no pun intended
or pun intended uh you know if we go
back just nine months ago you had uh
Bitcoin at 125,000 sentiment was
extremely bullish it was the debasement
trade uh retail was all in calls for a
million dollar Bitcoin And yet here we
are 9 months later and it's you know
been cut in half. Uh go back to late
October you had the software sector at
an all-time high. There was uh you know
sentiment maybe was not as optimistic as
it is on semis right now but it was an
all-time high. There was largely you
know a moat considered around software
and within 3 months you had it down 30%
and fears of AI you know wiping out the
sector. And then you go to January, late
January, when gold and silver were at
all-time highs, calls for $10,000 gold.
You kind of again had that debasement
trade. You had to uh uh you had to own
gold, right? And then we saw about a 30
or 40% draw down of precious metals in
in a matter of months. And then even
most recently, just 6 weeks ago, the MAG
7 hit an all-time high. They were
largely considered uh you know, kind of
immune to the inflation trade or
geopolitical risks. And yet here we are
with hyperscalers down 10 15 20% uh in
fears of their capex spending you know
going wild. So I think just from from
you know a history standpoint I think uh
investors should be aware that things
can change quickly and narrative follows
price not the other way around. So it's
it may be hard for investors to see a a
bearish narrative on the semi memory
trade but also let's remember Nvidia
which is a semi is down over the last
nine months. How many investors back in
in October would have thought Nvidia
would trade lower with semis broadly
doing what they're doing. So I think
just history tells us things can change
quickly.
>> Well, let's talk about what has been
changing and you noted a few of them. So
let's unpack that and I've picked out
two names throughout this morning. You
mentioned the Mac 7 within that
Microsoft and Meta those stocks in bare
markets Jonathan and just this month
alone to have Microsoft down by more
than 20%. To have Micron up by more than
20% to have 40 point performance gaps
between those two names when one
company's doing all the spending and
another company is receiving all of the
capex. Jonathan, do you think that's
sustainable? That's been a central
question for this program this morning.
Do you think it is?
>> You know, we we don't. And I think um
again leaving aside you know where the
money is flowing the money in the stocks
has obviously been flowing to a narrower
and fewer uh part of the market right so
even within semis as we mentioned Nvidia
has started roll over but it's really
those hyperscalers metam and Microsoft
that have have been uh and lagging but
again it wasn't that long ago that those
were seen as you know kind of the must
own names so I think that the parabolic
nature of these uh a lot of these names
specifically in memory is typically
unsustainable. able and while it's gone
much further than we would have imagined
even just a couple weeks ago um you know
the volume if you look at the volume
yesterday it was a record notional
volume for Micron around hundred billion
dollars um that's one of the largest
notional volume days ever in a lot of
stocks so I think you know the the runup
into Micron's earnings report received a
lot of hype u and I think on the
backside maybe there's a little bit of
of sell the news uh over the coming
weeks
>> what about just the the ownership uh
ownership structure of these stocks
let's take Micron as an example. S3 data
shows that active long ownership, so
kind of more of the hedge funds you'd
think about, the quote unquote smart
money, has been dropping. It's now at
16%, whereas passive holders are up
about 27%. So a plurality of holders of
Micron are passive holders of ETFs or or
passive mutual funds. What difference
does it make for that to be the cohort
in control of Micron?
>> Uh, you know, I don't know that it makes
a whole lot of difference. I mean
there's there's always going to be
changes in ownership. The passive side
obviously more on the ETF flows and you
know given the the surge in leverage
ETFs that could also um you know money
comes in when when things go up and
obviously the leverage ETFs have the
inverse on the way down. So uh I
wouldn't look too too closely at at
that. Um but I would say again look at
the volume look at the uh the trading
action. The other thing we we
highlighted recently for the broad-based
semicmplex, you had nine days in the
last 90 calendar days when the
semi-index was up 5% or more. The only
two periods we've seen anything like
that were in 2008 2009 at the depths of
the great financial crisis and in 2000
to 2003. So again, these were
historically moves you see in bare
markets. We're seeing it, you know, kind
of in in the tail end what we think of
of this bull market, which suggests more
of a blowoff type of trading action.
Well then what do you make as we've seen
kind of this rotation this violent
rotation within AI and within tech
itself you've seen value cyclicals small
caps equal weighted measures those are
outperforming Jonathan what do you look
at to see whether that type of rotation
is sustainable
>> yeah I mean that's actually one of the
things we have been been looking for is
you know as as parts of the uh AI
complex has rolled over more so on the
hyperscaler side right now we've seen
areas like financials the the regional
banks hit new uh new highs yesterday.
Biotech's been doing well. Uh
industrials, small cap industrials. And
so there is a lot of rotation going on,
which is still, you know, we think where
you want to look. Um so right now the
market is telling you it's it's
rotational in nature. Money is still
staying in equities. So there are places
to go. It's just we think there are
pockets that are are, you know, a better
risk award at this point than some of
the uh the high-flying semi-names.
>> John, final question. It's well in your
wheelhouse at the open and bound. We're
going to look for that break at a 50-day
moving average at the close yesterday
sitting right on top of it within a
point. How important is that support?
>> Uh look, I mean moving averages we we
certainly look at um I think generally
from a trend perspective, you want to
follow kind of more the slope of the
moving average. Uh so we'll we'll look
for we'll look to see if the 20-day kind
of turns down. Um, but if you're talking
the S&P, again, it is going to be
weighted by the by the tech trade, but
look at the equal S&P and look at
something like uh small cap value to get
a sense of, you know, if there's more
rotation below the surface.
>> Appreciate it, buddy. As always, thank
you, Jonathan Kinsky there of BTI with
equities under pressure this morning on
the S&P on the NASDAQ. That's the second
time this morning. Second time this
hour, we've heard someone say price sets
narrative, not the other way around.
>> I feel like we're struggling for that
narrative because of the price. I mean,
we don't have a new Mag 7 yet. It's
clear Mac 7's out. What's going to be
our new like fun rhyming or you know
threeletter moniker that's going to take
us forward?
>> Micron apparently mu perfect
>> right basically just that equity futures
down by.5. Let's get you an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
brief. Fonnie Quinn has more. Hey
Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Ukrainian President
Vladimir Zilinsky approving a 40-day
influence operation to convince Russia
to end the war. Silinsky did not give
details of the plan, which he posted
about on social media after receiving a
briefing from the head of his security
service on strikes against Russian
targets.
Microsoft raising prices for its current
generation Xbox consoles again, citing a
shortage of components. The company says
memory and storage costs have risen more
than two and a half times and could
double again by 2027.
President Donald Trump is preparing to
take his first trip on the presidential
plane gifted by the Qatari government
next week. sources telling us here at
Bloomberg the president will take the
plane to an event in North Dakota July
1st. The jet is among the biggest
foreign gifts ever given to the United
States government. And that is your
Bloomberg brief. John
>> Ronnie, thank you. Thank you for the
update. Up next on the program, seeking
stability from the labor market.
>> I do think though that the job market in
my mind is stable without being good.
The low higher low fire environment. I
think that's from business uncertainty.
>> Up next, we'll catch up with Russ
Brownback of Black Rockck from New York
City. This is Bloomberg Surveillance.
Check out Boeing this morning. Stock is
up in a pre-market. Quick bounce up by
0.6%. News just crossing moments ago.
China Southern to buy Boeing planes for
at least 3.62 billion US. The stock
responding to that higher by close to
6%. That's Boeing broader market looks
like this. Equity futures declining on
the S&P 500 by.5 on the Nasdaq by 1.2.
Bit of an offset developing in the bond
market. We'll spend some time on fixed
income in just a moment. Four
consecutive days above yields at the
front end of the yield curve. We're down
three basis points. Twos sub 4.1%. And
savantage this morning seeking stability
from the labor market. I do think though
that the job market in my mind is stable
without being good. It's extremely weird
that the layoff rate and the hiring rate
would both be really low. That's the low
higher low fire environment. I think
that's from business uncertainty.
>> So here's the latest this morning.
Traders tempering expectations for an
interest rate hike ahead of next week's
payrolls report. Russ Brownback of Black
Rockck writing, "The labor market is
soft and the nominal GDP would suggest
real wage growth this week. Unemployment
has not tightened meaningfully." Russ
joins us now for more. Russ, good
morning.
>> Hey, good morning.
>> A lot of people think we're setting the
stage here for rate hikes. Would you
take the other side of that? Um yeah, I
think the bar is pretty high for the Fed
to do anything from here. Um you know,
we've had this sort of surge in uh
nominal GDP growth. The labor market has
stabilized. We were kind of at peak job
disruption fear. Actually, the day we uh
uh entered the Iran conflict, remember
February 27th was the day Block
announced 40% layoffs and uh we had
three cuts priced into markets on that
day. So today, we've taken those out.
the data has stabilized
um and we've had resurgent growth
surprisingly uh through the quarter. We
really see that as sort of peaking right
about now. So back half of the year we
see the inflation readings decelerating
and some of those influences that have
been so heavy are going to come off the
boil. So the capex impulse we think
decelerates just marginally and the
fiscal impulse is going to decelerate a
little bit. So all of those things are
data that will come to the Fed and allow
them to sort of stand pat.
>> Good time to borrow or good time to
lend?
>> It's the best time to lend. I've been
doing it 30 35 years. You've got these
unbelievably high risk-free real yields
and then really really good fundamentals
underpinning credit quality. And so you
can build these diversified portfolios.
You know, there's been so much sort of
constrnation about bonds are costly and
bonds are dangerous when in fact the
opposite is true. We've been in this
income regime for the last three years
and the power of compounding uh very
very attractive real yields uh is the
gift that keeps on giving and we believe
that's the regime for fixed income
indefinitely.
>> There is a line of people who want to
borrow though and spreads are really
tight. So some people might be sitting
here saying why is it a good time to
lend? Supply is picking up. Spreads are
already very very tight. Seen all these
deals coming through on both the equity
and the debt side. Why is it a good time
to lend?
>> Supply is coming to the rescue of an
imbalance we've had for years. too much
money, not enough yielding assets. So,
you think about the equity market, uh,
stock buybacks over and above IPOs. The
equity, the share count in the equity
market's been going down. Fixed income,
there's two and a4 trillion dollars of
interest income that gets thrown off
every year that needs to be reinvested.
And gross issuance in credit has been
high, but net issuance has been low. So,
now if you're getting these bursts of
supply, they're very welcome to a to a
asset starved market. Um and I think
you're a long way from getting to the
tipping point of moving into you know
the other side of the equilibrium.
>> I was going to say I mean at what point
do you just mechanically see spreads
widening because there is more supply
coming to market.
>> So it's actually very interesting Danny
if you look at uh the phenomenon so far
this year you have had these
concentrated bursts of supply and
particularly related to the capex
buildout and that's where you're seeing
the concession in markets. So overall
public market credit uh indices are
pinned at all-time tights where you're
seeing the widening come along. We just
deep dive this week uh in our strategy
meeting. Um you're getting these new
issue concessions in the places where
there is this concentrated supply, but
that's a gift to investors. So, if these
companies are coming along and deciding,
if you're an investment grade rated
company and you're willing to borrow at
levels that are below where your credit
rating indicates that you might
otherwise be needing to borrow, that's a
gift to lenders. But if they can turn
around and invest that and get a good
return, everybody wins.
>> Well, there's also this question of
crowding out because so much capital
necessarily needs to go to work for this
project of building out AI
infrastructure. I was having this
conversation with Scott Goodwin of
Diameter who said that he's starting to
notice very slightly but picking up in
other industries that aren't techreated
because all the money is getting
funneled to them. Do you think that for
maybe more cyclical type industries or
ones that again don't have anything to
do with the AI buildout that their
spreads were widened because they're
kind of being ignored by the market? So
I I don't and you know we do investment
committee meetings every day and what I
see still is pockets of irrational
behavior where people are crowding into
lending uh at levels that aren't
necessarily where there's intrinsic
value. So I think the evidence is still
very much in favor of the idea that
there's a surplus of capital. you have
seen some rerating of illlquid assets in
general and as I said if it's data
center uh finance related if it's capex
related and and the supply is very
concentrated the concession's been wider
and so you just need a very discerning
lens in this environment uh to to be a
lender but again the intrinsic value is
there
>> so bottom line you think yield is
attractive right now all in yields high
and we've talked about where that's
coming from 85% of it's coming from the
risk-free asset how risk-free is the
risk-free asset right now
>> it's a I find it everything's in
equilibrium. So, uh risk-free rates are
high uh largely because real yields are
high today. That's a reflection of very
very solid nominal growth. Credit
spreads are narrow today, but that's
reflecting the same very strong growth
that underpins uh uh credit
fundamentals. Um and the key is
diversification because there is
dispersion. It is an uneven economy. Um,
and so, you know, you want to be very
careful how you build the portfolio, but
diversification on top of that very high
risk-free yield curve is this incredible
sharp ratio trade. And, you know, it's
it's the compounding. I mean, you can
feel the compounding as we're sitting
here talking that income is just ticking
up and that's the regime that we're in.
And as I said, we think it's indefinite.
>> Can we finish on the dispersion? Are
there parts of the e economy that you
are less excited about that you wouldn't
be interested in lending to? Now, of
course, I say that knowing that Black
Rockck is a massive shop and lends to
almost everything, but just thinking
about where you want to be and where you
don't want to be.
>> So, you know, look, the it's an uneven
economy. Um, you have the rate sensitive
sectors of the economy that are
suffering today, and whether that's
small businesses, whether it's anything
uh in the residential real estate
market, you know, whether it's in sort
of uh the the credit card or autoloan um
uh securizations, if you look at the
bottom of the capital stack there, you
start to see delinquencies move up. So
there are pockets of stress in the
economy. Again, if you can get paid the
right price for those parts of the
market, that's fine. But you just need
that discerning lens as you're
constructing portfolio.
>> How does the Federal Reserve calibrate
policy to adjust to that when you have
these areas of weakness in household
balance sheets, but you still see all
this strength in corporate balance
sheets?
>> Yeah, it's it's tricky because their
policy tools are pretty blunt. And you
know, when you think about the things
driving inflation today, those aren't
the things that Fed policy is designed
to sort of get at. um all the more
reason for committees to evaluate what
the protocol what the reaction function
of the central bank is. I'm really
excited about what the modern tool kit
>> task force fam. I absolutely you know
listen we disrupt ourselves in our
business every quarter we to make sure
we don't have recency bias we aren't
just doing things a certain way because
that's the way they've always been done
at a time when there's profound
innovation when there's lack of
visibility about where the world's going
to be in 6 months or 12 months the
toolkit should be reinvented the data
set should be reinvented and I'm really
heartened that that's the progression
>> I was tempted just to ask you if you
like the dot plot or press conferences
but you said the toolkit what do you
think they're going to change in a
toolkit.
>> So I I think they need to be very
open-minded at a time when when things
have changed. So you know whether it's
you know we look at the all the
different proprietary data sources we've
been building and compounding that
toolkit forever. You know we had a
debate internally uh this week somebody
said oh the Taylor rule says that the
Fed should be tightening. The two most
important inputs in the Taylor rule are
the economy's growth potential and the
and our star. I don't think anybody has
any idea with that's credible exactly
what those things are today. So what we
need to do is go in and investigate you
know what the right data points are and
then what the right models are for a
modern economy and I'm really excited to
see where that goes.
>> Russ excited to catch up with you sir
who's excited about this fixed income
market right now. It's good to see you
buddy. Thank you Russ Brown back there
of Black Rockck. Coming up next on the
program we'll catch up with Marvin Low
of State Street Varia of Bank of America
Greg Deo of EY Pathanon and Eureka
Hoffman Bachardi of UBS. The third hour
of Bloomberg surveillance is just around
the corner with equity futures on the
S&P 500 declining by 0.6 and the NASDAQ
down by 1.35
The technology revolution will continue.
It's just rapid fire movement of money.
>> The red lights would start flashing if
it felt like there was blind euphoria.
We've been on this broadening out theme
for a long time.
>> The market's going to broaden out a
little bit.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Pharaoh, Lisa Abramowitz, and
An Marie Hordern.
>> Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning from our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg surveillance starts right now
in your price action. Your scores look
like this. Equity futures down again by
0.5 on the S&P. On the NASDAQ down by
1.29, down by 6 on the Russell. In the
bond market, a bit of a rally again at
the front end of the curve for a fourth
consecutive session. Down by three basis
points. The 2-year just short of 4.1%.
10s anchored around 440 down from around
450. Looking ahead to next week, the
main event is Thursday. Holiday
shortened week next week. It's payrolls
Thursday. And so far, the data has been
pretty decent, which is why this Federal
Reserve has become increasingly focused
on hiking interest rates.
>> It's the refrain of we need to get to
2%, we heard it from Williams yesterday.
Goulsby talked about, and we've even
heard it from Kevin Worsh from the
chair, and that allowed the market to
interpret it as something hawkish. But
it is still some stability. We're seeing
PCE maybe not comfortable but not
uncomfortable and it's allowed for a
market while we deal with the equity
market volatility as we try to figure
out how to trade the AI trade you can
see some more calm in both fixed income
and now that same calm seems to be
returning to oil markets too don't have
any calm whatsoever in the tech trade at
least this morning overnight in Asia and
South Korea tons of volatility four days
no gains on the S&P 500 Monday Tuesday
Wednesday Thursday it looks like it's
about to become day
Unlike yesterday, Micron this morning is
trading lower and Micron at the
epicenter of a massive conversation in
technology right now. Their 85% margin
is becoming a bigger bigger problem for
everybody else.
>> It's a huge problem. And I also think
about other things. Okay, so we decided
data centers are really hot, so let's
buy a bunch of optic stocks. If all of a
sudden these hyperscalers are spending
huge amounts of their budget on memory,
what's left over for everything else?
This is damaging for many, many
companies that are surrounding the AI
trade because Micron can command 86%
margins. But we also have to ask, does
it mean that Micron's not cyclical
anymore? It's priced at eight times
forward earnings. It's like nothing. And
it's priced that way because we've
decided this thing is cyclical. Are we
going to start to change our minds? Is
something going to shift? And that does
mean further gains from Micron, which
we're obviously not seeing today.
>> Equity futures shifting this morning.
We're down by more than 1%. micron
that's negative between four and 5
percentage points in the pre-market.
Coming up this hour, we'll catch up with
Marvin Low of State Street on another
round of tech volatility. The Varia of
Bank of America raising his forecast for
the chip sector. Greg Deo of EY Pathon
on how AI is keeping inflation above
target. We begin this out with stocks
inching lower following renewed selling
in tech. Marvin Low of State Street is
blaming the Fed. Tighter liquidity is
likely behind recent equity volatility
which has been driven by Fed share wash
uncertainty. This is loosening and we
think that risk should stabilize. Marvin
joins us now for more. Marvin, welcome
to the program. I just want to build on
that. Just how much of these jitters in
the equity market
>> lay at the feet of the Fed chair and
maybe not the likes of Micron?
>> Well, I mean for sure um you know we've
had uh an incredible run in a lot of
these stocks and you know they're rich,
they're overowned um and there's a
natural um uh amount of flow and
diversification that that goes along
with it. Uh in terms of what we're
hearing from the Fed, in a lot of ways
it's a position of strength. You know, a
lot of these um conversations about
whether they hike or whether it's an
extended period of holding is really a
function of the growth story being much
better than we expected um at the
beginning of this year. Um in terms of
the uncertainty that potentially is
making its way into the market, which is
a little bit more concerning to me, is
on the balance sheet policy side of
things. Um and I think that uh the Fed
balance sheet and the amount of
liquidity that it's been able to provide
in the market has been a tailwind for
risk assets, you know, really for the
last few years. Um and a significant
change in that policy is something that,
you know, we should watch as investors.
>> Marvin, what would a significant change
in that policy even look like over the
next several months? Yeah,
>> I I I mean I mean for sure if we wind up
hearing from the Fed that they want to
shrink the balance sheet below the
levels that we got to at the end of last
year um you know, if you will, that
created a little bit of volatility
within the funding market and then stop
the QT process and ultimately restarted
some of the um some of the asset
purchases on the Treasury bill side of
things. Um that is something that we've
seen have a negative impact on risk
assets. um it really wasn't that tight
of an amount of uh liquidity that caused
that volatility within the funding
world. If we significantly look back
towards you know maybe different regimes
thinking about what the balance sheet
might have looked like near the
beginning of the GFC um you know that's
a significant change in the amount of
liquidity that's in the system
>> when when it comes to capital market
liquidity. Marvin Ludo Sabbron, the Alon
CEO, was talking to the FT and basically
made this argument that all of this
issuance that we've seen um whether it
be on the equity side from SpaceX or on
the bond market side that for him it's a
sign that we've shifted from a healthy
boom to a stretch boom now into bubble
territory. Do you get red flags from all
of the issuance coming into the market?
>> You know what uh it certainly is uh a
very important marker. um the amount of
capital is the the demand for the amount
of capital is something in my mind that
requires a higher interest rate um and
ultimately uh robust liquidity in order
to continue and the fact that that
spending is so important to the GDP
story which is kind of really where US
exceptionalism is rising above uh you've
got you've got a bunch of um you know
Jenga blocks if you will um it's not as
if we're seeing those blocks being
pulled out uh in wholesale manner. Uh
but you know certainly there is a bit
more tightness with the uncertainty um
that we're hearing from a new Fed that
really wants to look at everything and
that's not necessarily a bad thing. Um
but there's a period of uncertainty as
they kind of figure out where they want
to where they want to settle.
>> In the meantime, Marvin, can can we just
discount oil as an important driver of
this economy? We saw some volatility,
but we're back to levels that we hadn't
seen since before the start of the war.
Has oil kind of lost its punch and
therefore lost its punch for a driver of
this treasury market?
>> Yeah, I mean for for the moment for
sure. Um you know I think that inflation
expectations have probably gotten a
little bit of ahead a little bit ahead
of itself in terms of you know tracking
that decline in oil prices. Um but it
has had a limited impact certainly in
terms of the pass through. um it really
hasn't affected spending at all and it's
allowed kind of this growth story to be
the main reason that we're thinking
about uh a Fed that is leaning towards
tightening.
>> Marvin, it didn't hit spending on the
way up. Does it support spending on the
way down?
>> I think so. I think so. I I think that's
um an underappreciated
uh part of this discussion. You know, um
gas prices below $4 is just going to
put, you know, a few more dollars into a
lot of people's pockets.
>> This is the toen slot cam. just how hot
do you think this economy will be as we
work our way through summer?
>> Um, you know, I it's it has surprised to
the upside um really for the last
several quarters. You know, I think
ultimately it can continue to do that as
we go through the summer.
>> Even so, Marvin, so you have consumers
who are spending, but they're extremely
unsatisfied. They're extremely upset
that inflation is still a problem. And
the way that you're seeing that play out
is not through spending. It's through
the politics of the moment. I mean, New
York City's elections are are a great
example of that. If you do get more
policy that kind of follows this
populist bend, if we're talking about
the government taking stakes in AI
policy, how are you thinking about that
filtering through to the investment
decisions you make?
>> That's all all of the populism that that
we're seeing um is inflationary in my
mind. Um and and I really do push back
on the view that inflation expectations
are automatically on a on a downward
slope because oil prices have come down.
I do think that you see that uh pressure
kind of building across wages, building
across um you know rents. Uh it does
wind up creating an inflationary type of
environment that's that's kind of hard
to pull back.
>> So what does the Fed do in all of this
then Marvin? It's it's some clear
inflation drivers that you're pointing
to. Um not necessarily seeing anyone
condoning hikes on the Fed, but they
certainly at least don't sound like
they're ready to cut it anytime soon.
>> Yeah, I mean I I I think that they need
to maintain that tightening bias. Um so
far the market has voted with confidence
in terms of pulling down longer term
yields. You know, remember um we've been
talking about it for the last 6 to9
months how unanch anchored the long end
of the curve was because we were
concerned that the Fed wasn't going to
really get a handle on that inflation.
Um you know I again some positives that
came out of uh the FOMC meeting last
week was that the long end is behaving
investors uh do believe in the inflation
fighting um will of the Fed. Um and they
need to continue to do that because that
long-term yield is so important to
really all of the growth within this
economy.
>> Marvin, good to see you. It always is.
Thank you. By Marvin Low there of State
Street breaking it down and pleased you
brought up the politics. You saw the
headlines overnight, I'm sure, about
stabilizing rents in this city and
keeping everything unchanged. Yeah, I
mean there there is some real discontent
and in the past we've seen that maybe
move people more to the right. This time
around it's moving people more to the
left. It shows up in nimism of people
not wanting data centers in their
backyard about rent stabilization. There
is this real growing force and it's hard
to really extrapolate what's happening
in New York to the entirety of the world
because it's a bit of a bubble here. But
you do feel that discontent playing out
in policy
>> which is why you see the populists on
the right and the left agree on certain
economic
>> issues. the kind of you you know
horseshoe of politics
>> bending together you see interest rate
costs on credit cards that's how we
started the year we were having this
conversation around the table yesterday
that's how we started the year getting
Wall Street at the housing market all
that stuff is coming back to the surface
once again
>> but I guess the question will have to be
how much of is is lip service in actual
policy you look at the housing bill that
was just passed by the Senate they were
trying to curtail uh uh institutional
investment in housing but there were so
many caveats that ultimately it doesn't
make that much of a but then they can go
to their constituents and say, "Look, we
passed this thing to get institutional
owners out of single family housing."
>> The conversation building up again going
into the midterms later this year.
Equity futures, if you're just joining
us, welcome to the program. On the back
foot this morning, we're down by 0.4% on
the S&P, down by around 1% through much
of this morning on the NASDAQ with an
update on stories worldwide with your
Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has more.
Hey, Vonnie.
>> Hey, John. Thank you. Open AAI is
leaning towards holding off on an IPO
until next year. The New York Times
reporting bankers cautioned that recent
volatility in tech stocks could dampen
enthusiasm from retail investors for
OpenAI's offering.
Microsoft raising prices for its current
generation Xbox consoles again, citing a
shortage of components. The company says
memory and storage costs have risen more
than two and a half times and could
double again by 2027.
In sports, Ecuador mounted a bold
comeback to upset Germany 2-1 in the
final match of group play. It's their
first win of the World Cup and secures a
birth into the knockout stage.
Elsewhere, the Ivory Coast beating
Corissau 2-0il to make the knockout
stage for the first time in history. And
that is your brief, John.
>> Some big games later as well. Vonnie,
thank you. France, Norway, Uruguay,
Spain later on this afternoon. Two big
games to watch.
>> Yeah, I'm I'm It's been such a good
summer for sports.
>> It's been pretty cool, hasn't it? It's
been really cool this weekend. Some good
games. England Panama.
>> You'll be there.
>> After that one, I'll be there.
>> Right.
>> Got my I've I've got my England kit
ready.
>> Oh, have you?
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's like an old school
Beckham one. It's pretty cool. But it
looks wrong when I speak cuz then this
American accent comes out and they're
like, "Oh,
>> doesn't matter." I'm sure you got an
English accent in there somewhere.
>> Oh, no. You can make it.
>> No, no, no. We don't We don't
>> We don't have to practice here. Bremo
did that once. It didn't sound too good.
>> Yeah, I'm learning from her mistakes,
Sean.
>> Yeah, we won't repeat that mistake. Up
next on the program, the morning calls.
Plus, we'll catch up with VCaria of Bank
of America with a bullish outlook for
chip stocks. We'll have that
conversation in just a moment. With
equity futures negative by.3% on the S&P
recovering just a touch on the NASDAQ,
we're down by 1 percentage point.
When you look at Open AI and the frenzy
around it, it doesn't feel as much like
an analyst reading, you know, SKH Heinix
reports as it does the GameStop glory
days. And so I think that they were
depending on that frenzy uh to be able
to give them a valuation that doesn't
really make sense when you look at the
numbers. That was Sarah Cun of Cleo
Capital weighing in on the potential
delay to the OpenAI IPO. We'll catch up
with Ed Lam on that in just a moment.
Let's check out the price action
together on the S&P 500 declining by a
third of 1% erasing some of the losses
this morning as we get closer to the
opening bell. 1 hour and 15 minutes away
on the last 100 this morning. Down by
around 1 percentage point on the week so
far. Down Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday,
Thursday, 4 days, no gains on the S&P
500. You make it day five and that's the
longest such streak of the year so far.
That's the equity picture. Here's the
bond market story. Twos, tens, and 30s,
twos, yields declining by three basis
points. Once again this morning for a
fourth session, we're down to about 4.1%
on a 2year yield. the longest such run
going back to the start of the year, the
month of January, I believe, encouraged
by this move in crude. We talked about
the disconnect between the return trip
we've had in Bren and still the elevated
yields at the front end of the curve
maybe recoupling somewhat down 3% this
morning, 72 on Bren, 69 on WTI. Bear in
mind, we've wiped out the wartime rally
on crude and yet still yields at the
front end of the yield curve are still
some 70 basis points higher now than
they were at the end of February before
that war started. That's the cross asset
picture this morning and financial
markets. Let's get you some morning
calls. First up, Key Bank downgrading
Nike to sector weight saying the
company's turnaround is taking longer to
materialize than expected. Your second
call from TD Cowan downgrading on semi
to hold saying its deal to acquire
Synaptics adds complexity to an already
complicated model. Their stock is down
at the pre-market by 13%. And finally,
DC Bank upgrading Qualcomm to buy,
reflecting growing confidence in a
chipmaker expansion. That name is still
lower by 1.6%. Let's stick with tech.
Open AAI considering holding off on an
IPO until 27. According to the New York
Times, bankers are warning recent
volatility in tech stocks could hurt
enthusiasm. Well, the CEO Sam Alman
pushes for a 1 trillion dollar
valuation. Bloom's Ed Ledllo has more.
Ed, good morning buddy. There's a long
list of companies looking to do the same
thing, and this one was top of the pile.
What do you make of the potential, and I
stress potential delay?
>> Yeah, potential delay. I mean, the New
York Times report cites the concern from
OpenAI and its advisers of commanding a
valuation they think is fair in this
environment. The idea that OpenAI would
go in 2027 as opposed the end of this
year is kind of consistent with what
we've been hearing anyway. And on June
8th when they disclose their
confidential filing, they basically said
even though we've done this, it will be
some time. We've not set a date in part
because there are lots of things the
company wants to do that are easier to
do as a private company than being in a
public company. But I think what I hear
a lot at the moment is there's a level
of comfort in letting Anthropic go first
and that Anthropic is moving. You know,
it's it's getting the the mechanism in
place to to do this. Um there's also a
lot of cautionary tale both not just in
the equity but in the bond story of
what's happened with SpaceX in recent
days of you know of pulling the trigger
quickly. Are they also just late? This
is the question we've asked whether this
is an OpenAI issue or just a broader
capital market story that we had
Alphabet get out early just ahead of
SpaceX with that upsides monster equity
capital raise. Then we had the biggest
IPO we've ever seen with SpaceX. And
then this week Danny and I were talking
about this earlier this morning. SK
Heinick's looking to raise 30 billion
through US ADRs. That alone is one of
the biggest capital raises we've ever
seen in US capital markets. Ed, are they
looking at that and saying, you know
what, it's too much too quickly. On top
of that, you've got the lock up, the
staggered lockup of SpaceX just rolling
out over the next 6 months or so that
they've got to contend with too.
>> That chronology is is spot on. And you
know, we've been talking about it for a
month literally in that order, the
sequence of events, and that that the
idea there's a finite pool of capital.
The one thing that that that that is
slightly different with open AI with
respect to which order they go in is
look at the commonality on the cap table
of anthropic and open AI. There are lots
of investors ranging from mutual funds
to the sovereigns that have decided to
back both at different points in recent
history and maybe deciding you know is
there room in the world for two horses
or just one. SpaceX included in that
race as well. um and then who the
potential, you know, sort of cornerstone
investors would be in an IPO. But again,
you know, just reflecting on what OpenAI
has said on on the record, which is very
limited, there are lots of things that
you can do as a private company. You you
you may be restricted in doing as a
public company. And um noting also that
that anthropics kind of overtaken them
from a revenue run rate perspective or
traction in in in uh enterprise deals,
etc. You know, that that factors in too.
Ed, before you go down 5% on Micron,
wanted to squeeze this in. It's been the
conversation of the morning right here
on Bloomberg surveillance that their 85%
86% margins are becoming everybody
else's problem. Sustainability is the
word. Sustainability is the question,
Ed. What's the response you're getting?
>> Yeah, historically, uh, they do not
maintain margins at elevated levels
throughout a memory cycle. The question
is whether this is cyclical or that the
fundamental structure of the memory chip
market has changed for good. I heard
what you guys were talking about earlier
in the well why are we also investing in
optics? Why are there supply constraints
everywhere? It's really simple. GPU
based architectures dominate data
centers. For every one Nvidia Blackwell,
there are eight corresponding stacks of
high bandwidth memory. It's just logic
that if what we're hearing from Nvidia
is true, the continued investment in
Nvidia GPUbased systems and and the
growth is like that, you know, an upward
curve, then supply will remain tight for
a long time on the memory side. And
because of the pricing power that Micron
has and others and the demand that the
data center have with their capex power,
that's where they go and it's why Apple
had to raise prices on the consumer
electronics side and Xbox followed suit.
>> Ellis, good to see you. Looking forward
to the program. Three hours away. Bloom
technology hosted by Ed Lello. Becaria
of Bank of America staying bullish on
semis raising his forecast for the chip
sector expecting the market to reach 2.7
trillion by 2030. He writes the AI
industry moving to addressing structural
and physical constraints from having to
defend return on investment before.
Memory chip shortages and price
inflation remain the critical moving
pieces. VC joins us now for more. VC
welcome. We've been asking how much
longer is the runway. The response we're
getting from a lot of people is longer
than you think. what's your response?
>> Uh good morning. Um we think that uh the
AI infrastructure cycle could last at
least through the end of uh this decade.
I think we are only about a third of the
way through and you know there is still
a lot of adoption ahead when it comes to
enterprises when it comes to consumers.
Um you know yes there has been a lot of
deployment of this infrastructure
initially uh by the hyperscalers but I
think we are very early in the adoption
of these services and applications uh by
enterprises and uh consumers on premise.
There's a lot of deployment that uh
different uh countries and states and
regions uh need to do to be uh
self-sufficient. So no we are extremely
uh bullish uh and I think that means
very good things uh across the
semiconductor supply chain whether one
looks at uh computing companies whether
one looks at networking optics uh memory
u and you know these kind of deployments
are never a straight line uh there are
there are going to be periods of uh
digestion in uh between uh but I think
that despite that volatility I do think
the cycle can last till the end of the
decade
>> ve on on that cycle I have the same
question for you that John was just
discussing with Ed that these stocks
these uh semiconductors go through boom
and bust historically is this time
different?
>> Yeah, they they do go through uh boom
and bust uh cycles and and you know
there is you know there is a scenario
where um between now and till the end of
the decade there is a year where there
is a period of absorption but I I would
say that that is part of you know any
cyclical uh industry. Uh what we have to
question though is that do we believe
that uh the deployment of this AI
infrastructure is important and that is
there enough of uh monetization and and
funding and the returns that these
hyperscalers are getting and our
assumption is absolutely yes. Look at
the growth rates uh that uh the top
search company uh the top u uh you know
web services company they are getting
their their growth rates have
accelerated to their fastest level in
the last three or four years. If you
look at the largest social company out
there with three billion plus
subscribers, it is growing 20 to 30% a
year. How does a company with three
billion subscribers grow 20 or 30% a
year? The only way for it to do that is
to extract more value from every user
and AI is a critical tool uh to do that.
That is why we are so bullish because I
think there is a secular theme but of
course within any secular theme there
could be periods of uh digestion and and
in between and if you look at the growth
rates uh for the end customers that are
anywhere between 20 to 30% on an on an
average the semiconductor industry is
not able to create capacity that
quickly. You know it takes years
billions of dollars to add new
manufacturing uh fabs. there's a lot of
specialization uh required and so I
think this supply demand imbalance can
last for a uh for a while and then the
final point I would make there is you
know the top three semiconductor
companies that I cover Nvidia Broadcom
and Micron they're all trading at below
market multiples so it is different uh
this time because I do think the cycle
can last longer and because I do think
the valuations make a lot more uh sense
this time around
>> VC always good to catch up appreciate
your time VC Har of Bank of America that
final point such an odd odd situation to
see a move like the one we have on
Micron up by more than 200% year to
date. And we can sit here and say the
stock is still cheap. Just crazy how
much earnings have picked up and how
quickly they have done.
>> I was going to say their last earnings
even though they rallied 6% I mean 16%
you saw price to earnings ratios come
down because their earnings were still
strong. This thing is still trading
under nine times forward earnings. If
you believe that it's a boom and bus
cycle that's reasonable. If you think
this time is different as VC does that's
pretty cheap. Micron lower this morning
by around 5% up on the year
exponentially. Coming up on the program,
we'll catch up with Greg Deo of EY
Pathon and how AI spending is driving
inflation. Plus, Yihara has your morning
movers. Fears of a delayed public
offering from OpenAI weighing on some
cloud stocks this morning.
We are on track for the wrong kind of
clean sweep every single day this week.
On track at least for a day without
gains. On the S&P 500 this morning,
we're down by 0.4. On the NASDAQ, we're
down by one full percentage point. We
haven't had a run like that all year. On
the S&P on the back foot, likewise on
the Russell, we're negative by 0.5. In
the bond market, things getting better,
firming up at the front end of the yield
curve when things were getting away from
the Federal Reserve. The 2-year yield is
still well above the policy rate of the
Federal Reserve, but it's certainly not
as above as it was. We were looking at
420 only a few days ago. We're back down
to about 410 on Tuesday. We're down two
basis points, setting the tone for this
next week will be payrolls Thursday. the
firming up of the unemployment story,
the labor market picture has just
allowed this Fed to focus more on the
other side of the mandate, inflation,
things like that. You just wonder if it
flips back if we get a bit of weakness
just next week.
>> I mean, it would have to also because on
the inflation side of things, now oil
has started to come down. So, that also
gives them a bit of time to play for. I
would also just make the comment that
this will probably ruin a lot of
people's long weekends. Ian Lingan out
with a note saying July 10th would have
been fine. Yeah. You don't you didn't
have to do this on Thursday.
>> As if 4 days isn't enough, right?
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> We have to hang out for payrolls, too.
>> Yeah. Of course.
>> What did you want like three and a half?
Is that what you wanted next week to be?
>> Yeah. I think every week should be three
and a half. No, we can get all work
done.
>> 250 fantastic years of this country's
history. We should have a three-day
week. Of course.
>> Yeah. I think in this country's history,
we used to have a six day week. So, I
mean, you know, I'll take five
>> or seven.
>> Or Yeah.
>> Given the work the work ethic of the
original.
>> That's a very good point. Weekends were
probably not a thing.
>> Yes. We look lazy. That's for sure. One
hour away from the cash open with your
morning movers. Yahihara has more. Hey
yhara.
>> Hi John. We're seeing the impact from
that report that Open AAI may be
delaying its IPO until 2027. We saw the
news hit Soft Bank overnight in Japan.
That stock plunging some 13%. And now we
wake up to Cororeweave and Oracle both
lower in the pre-market because both
these names have a lot writing on this
listing. Oracle has a $300 billion deal
to build OpenAI's data centers. Uh while
Coreweee has a cloud partnership worth
up to $22 billion and that is not
helping sentiment around the chip and
memory trade. We are seeing names like
Micron and AMD falling in the pre-market
along with this reason. Investors
growing increasingly worried about
demand destruction after we heard from
Apple and Microsoft that they are hiking
prices on their products because the
components are getting way too pricey.
So that is fueling concerns about
spending uh eventually slowing at one
point. And uh we end on the
semiconductor trade. Uh, not a good day
to announce a deal if you're a chip
maker, but that's the situation that On
Semi is in. Shares are plunging 13.6%
after it agreed to buy this company
here, Synaptics, uh, in a $6 billion all
stock deal, but investors clearly not
convinced since Synaptics uh, makes
chips that go into things like laptops
and smartphones. And what analysts are
saying is that this takes uh, onsemi
away from that that AI data center story
which is much more lucrative. John
>> Yhara, thank you. Thanks for the update
this morning. Some of the movers going
into the opening bout in about 58
minutes time. Inflationary pressures
remaining elevated. PC data posting a
four handle for the first time in three
years. Greg Deo of EY Python writing the
AI investment boom is contributing to
price pressures across tech related
inputs. As a result, headline inflation
should moderate, but core inflation is
likely to remain uncomfortably firm
above the Fed's 2% target. Greg joins us
now for more. Greg, welcome back to the
show. Let's talk about that. If we are
uncomfortably above the 2% target, does
the Fed have a role here? Most people
would say yes, but if they hike interest
rates, what kind of a difference does it
make?
>> Well, I think we have to be careful as
to where the pressures are coming from.
Uh, what I've been arguing is that a lot
of the inflationary pressures that we're
seeing today are coming from the supply
side. Um, and there's really not much
that the Fed can do in this environment.
If you look at the plus and minuses in
terms of inflation drivers, on the
downside, you have lower energy prices
now that will feed into lower uh gas
prices over the second half of the year.
You still have some disinflation in the
housing uh market, but that's likely to
come to an end. And then you have the
labor market, which is disinflationary
because wage growth adjusted for
inflation is actually in contraction
territory. Some of the supply pressures
are coming on the plus side. You're
seeing, as you were talking about just a
minute ago, higher price pressures on
the computer front, on the memory
storage front. That's passing from
producer prices onto consumer prices.
You're also seeing some lingering
effects from tariffs. And you are seeing
some lingering effects in terms of
transportation costs and production
costs from higher energy costs still
feeding into the supply chain. So, the
Fed can't really do much about those
supply shocks. And I think in my
opinion, the Fed's likely to wait this
out uh rather than tighten monetary
policy as it currently stands.
>> Oh, Greg, let's build some some life
into that. I've heard from Deutsche
Bank, BMP, Bank of America, they're all
expecting hikes. We caught up with BFA
yesterday who think they could go as
soon as July. What's going to give them
the time, the luxury of waiting?
>> I think there is a little bit of of a
bias towards looking at other central
banks and how they've reacted to this uh
tight to this environment where
inflation has risen. Uh, you've seen the
Bank of Canada, you've seen the ECB
tighten. The ECB is still talking about
further tightening, but where did they
start? They started at a policy rate
that was close to neutral. We're still
at a marginally restrictive monetary
policy stance. And as I was saying,
you're not seeing the typical
inflationary forces from the labor
market. In my opinion, and this is
something that the market does not
necessarily seem to be in agreement
with, but the labor market is not
inflationary. If anything, it's
disinflationary. Yes, we've seen job
growth stabilize. Yes, we have a low
unemployment rate, but if you look at
wage growth, which is a key gauge in
terms of labor market health, that is
declining when you adjust for inflation.
Let's not forget when you and I go to
the grocery store, we don't really care
about the unemployment rate. We care
about the income we have in our pocket.
And that income is under pressure from
higher inflation that's gradually
eroding spending power. So, I think the
Fed is going to be very cautious about
tightening in this environment where
some of these supply pressures are
leading to higher inflation, but they're
also eroding demand, final demand, and
that's an area of caution.
>> Greg, why why aren't we seeing more of
that than show up in consumer spending?
Why have those figures remain really
resilient?
>> Well, pivot that actually to to the
other side. You know, there was a lot of
talk of massive fiscal stimulus being
injected into the economy from the one
big beautiful bill, larger tax refunds
fueling spending. But look at consumer
spending growth in the first quarter.
Very weak below 1% on an annualized
basis. Look at the trend in terms of
consumer spending adjusted for inflation
around 2% but income I come back to this
is still flat to slightly negative when
you adjust for inflation and taxes. So
that is really what I'm very keenly
focused on. Yes, consumers can spend
with wealth and there has been greater
wealth accumulation. They can spend with
credit. They can spend with savings. But
we have to be conscious that these are
finite resources. If you look on the
longer horizon, we're going to be in an
environment where that pressure, that
income squeeze is going to lead to
slower spending growth. I'm not talking
about a recession or a contraction. I'm
talking about more conservative
discretionary spending happening. And
while the World Cup may provide a bit of
a lift in June and July, you have to be
conscious that there's going to be this
cap on spending momentum as we navigate
through the rest of 2026.
>> Greg, though, how how much of this
market is doing the heavy lifting from
that? We we started the show speaking
with Cam Dawson who talked about how
great the wealth effect is at this
moment. How how much of that is
currently tied to the spending we're
seeing and what does that mean if you do
start to get market declines?
>> I think we are seeing some of that
wealth effect feed into consumer
spending especially on the services
side. Uh you see a little bit less of it
on the retail side and that's not
surprising because a lot of the higher
income spending tends to go towards uh
spending on services, leisure activity,
travel activity. So that's where you
start to see more of that wealth effect.
But let's not forget, we're also in an
environment where if you have that
income squeeze, which is the main pillar
to consumer spending activity for the
majority, the 99% of us, uh, then in
that environment, you're not necessarily
going to see an acceleration in consumer
spending momentum. You're going to see a
cap on consumer spending growth. So I
would anticipate that for the rest of
the year we're going to be in that one
and a half to two% range when it comes
to consumer spending growth and that's
going to limit the overall pace of
economic activity. That's why I'm
conscious and cautious about calling the
Fed to hike in this environment because
again I'm not seeing the types of
mismatches between demand and supply
that would force the Fed to tighten
monetary policy in an effort to curb
demand and curb inflationary pressures.
In the meantime, Greg, do you have to
communicate hawkishly for the following
reason that it feels like things are a
little lose-lose right now? Because
let's say the Fed takes your way of
thinking about things and talks about it
publicly. Fed chair Walsh comes out and
says, "There's nothing we can do about
this. I get it. It's above target, but
we don't have a role here." What would
happen to inflation expectations if we
saw that kind of reaction from the Fed?
>> Yeah, I mean, that's a great question. I
think you have to communicate. That's
number one. Uh I'm a little bit
skeptical of this notion that the Fed
will be communicating less will be less
transparent about its intentions in
terms of monetary policy because that
leaves markets and investors to try and
interpret what the Fed is going to do.
That's going to lead to more volatility.
So number one, you have to communicate
and be clear as to your reaction
function. Number two, yes, you do need
to stay with that hawkish stance. Gone
is the easing bias. That's a good thing.
But you have to communicate the
possibility that you will raise interest
rates should you see one more inflation
persistence coming from the demand side
of the equation, two, potentially a rise
in inflation expectations, and three,
potentially a rise in wages. We're not
seeing that. We're seeing wage growth
continue to ease lower and real wage
growth, as I mentioned, into negative
territory. But communication, John, is
the most important thing in this
environment.
>> Greg, appreciate your time as always,
buddy. Thank you. Greg Deco there of EY
Pathon on this Federal Reserve. It's
early days. I don't want to be too
critical of an institution that's got
new leadership. And we've only had one
news conference with the Fed share Kevin
Walsh. But he did fail to articulate a
reaction function for this Federal
Reserve. And that's where some of the
criticism has come from over the last
week, particularly from the likes of
Neil Data over at REMAC and others.
>> For sure. I I think Greg's point is an
interesting one that you have to
communicate because you don't want it to
leave it just to the markets to decide
the fate of financial conditions. You
didn't really get that sense though from
Chair Wars. And I wonder if it does take
some big market test for him to step in
and issue something that maybe looks
like forward guidance in order to get
the rain back from what financial
conditions are doing.
>> I've seen that test this morning. We've
got a yield to lower at the front end of
the curve. We're down by about two basis
points. The 4.1% 10 stable around 439.
Let's give you an update on stories
worldwide with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie Quinn has more. Hey Vonnie.
>> Hey John. Thank you. Iran striking a
cargo ship in the street of Hormuz.
Multiple outlets reporting tan was
behind the first reported attack since
the interim peace deal between the US
and Iran went into effect last week. A
policy win for New York City Mayor
Udoran Mamani. The city's rent
guidelines board voting to freeze rents
for about a million stabilized
apartments. The decision applies to both
one and two-year leases. It's the first
time rents for longerterm agreements
have been frozen.
The US finishing its World Cup group
stage with a 3-2 loss to Turkey. The
Americans already securing a spot in the
knockout stage. Team US will face Bosnia
Gavina in the round of 32 on July 1st.
And that is your Bloomberg brief. John.
>> Hey Volley, thank you. Thank you for
this morning. Up next on the program,
we'll set you up for the day ahead.
Plus, we'll catch up with Ora Hoffman
Bachardi of UPS saying the AI rally has
more room to run. from New York City.
You're watching Bloomberg TV.
I think the only reason why Micron's
able to post 830% earnings growth in the
year of 2026 is because the hyperscalers
are willing to deep reach very deep into
their pockets. And I think the big
question is how much more upside is
there to hyperscaler capex spending.
>> Cam Dawson, New Edge Wealth on the
program earlier on this morning, just a
few hours ago. And that was the central
question for this program this morning.
The monster wealth transfer that you're
seeing from the hyperscalers to the
capex takers, the chip makers right now.
And really capturing that story through
this month so far is a 20% plus decline
in Microsoft and a 20 plus rally
percentage point rally for the likes of
Micron. That gap really explains the
story of the moment in this market.
>> And what does it mean for market
leadership? Because those big cap tech
stocks, they had been like our safety
blanket for the market. This nice little
corner to retreat to. We had MAG 7. Now
we don't really have anything. It is
maybe just Micron. So we're trying to
figure out what market leadership
actually looks like. And that's always a
very messy process and it feels like
we're living through it right now.
>> 85 86% margins and it's becoming
everybody's ass's problem.
>> It is whether you're soft. Exactly. I
mean you can have on one day the same
story. Send Micron higher by 16% and
Apple down by six.
>> Today's an odd one. I said this a little
bit earlier. It's slightly confusing. So
their margin is a problem for everybody
else which becomes a problem for them at
the same time.
>> That makes sense.
>> Or or it's just South Korea is doing
weird things and the ETFs there are
doing too much leverage. Maybe this is
deleveraging, not a fundamental story.
You can kind of, you know, pick your
adventure of what you want to do.
>> We'll spend some time unpacking that in
the next 5 minutes or so. Let's turn to
the market. Equity futures on the S&P
500. Futures look like this, pulling
back by.5% on the S&P. On the NASDAQ
100, we are down by 1.3. We've talked
about things firming up at the front end
of the yield curve. Twos are down again
for a fourth consecutive session. Yields
lower. We're lower by two basis points
to a break of 4.1%. Let's call this
4.0983
at the front end of the curve. Crude
isn't hurting this move in WTI and Brent
declining once again by close to 4%.
Brent at 72, WTI around 69. That's a
cross asset picture for now going into
next week. Here's the story for you
before we get there. 10 a.m. Eastern
time. UMIC consumer sentiment. Consumer
sentiment has been absolutely terrible
over the last several months, the last
several years. Consumer confidence on
Tuesday. Look out for that. More data on
Wednesday. ISM and PMIs on Thursday. It
is payrolls Thursday. And I can give you
a sneak peek of the estimate in our
survey. The medium right now is 115. The
previous is 172 and these days 115 is
seen as pretty good, Danny. A 115
estimate in our survey.
>> And again, it's the point you've been
making. Does that allow the Fed to play
for more time or at least concentrate
more on inflation? The numbers have been
holding up. Consumer spending has been
holding up. We're just talking to Greg
Daco about this. But the fear is is that
you are starting to see real wages start
to get eaten into. And so at some point
does that spending not hold up anymore?
>> Stocks this morning down by.5% on course
for a fifth day without gains on the S&P
500. Or Hoffman Charlie writing
fundamentals continue to support risk
assets. Equities can move higher. Fed
hikes are unlikely and AI remains the
dominant driver of earnings growth. Or
joins us now for more. Or good to see
you.
>> Good to see you.
>> We've got to unpack several themes
there. We can save the Federal Reserve.
Let's start with the earnings. That's
been really supportive of this equity
market. You've got 20% earnings growth
this year. that decelerates into next
year. How are we going to handle that
decline?
>> Well, first of all, three drivers of
earnings growth for us uh globally. One
is strong government spending. The four
largest economies in the world are
fiscally stimulating. Then we have the
AI capex that stands now at 2.5% of US
GDP and the consumer still spending. So
in the short and medium-term that's very
bullish for equity markets. But as we
look further out, fiscal stimula
stimulus is going to start to fade and
the consumer may come under more duress.
So those are the factors that make us
less optimistic about economic growth in
the US in the longer term.
>> Can we pick out the capex story as well?
We're starting to see the companies
doing all the spending. Their stocks are
suffering. I've repeated this all week.
Microsoft Meta bare markets not
fantastic. Is that going to shape their
appetite to spend beyond this year? Will
that decelerate?
possibly. We still think though the
demand for AI is only going to go up. In
our estimates, we predict 25% increase
in AI activity by 2030. That requires
about five times the install base of
compute that we had last year. So, our
estimates are only going higher in
volume and in price. Having said that,
we are now at the middle game of the AI
chess game and there are going to be
winners and losers. the opening game,
the first three and a half years,
everybody could be a winner. And I think
we are starting to see now the
separation from the winners and the
losers. And we've seen it in software,
of course, early in the year, software
was down over 20% in January. Now, I
think the big question to your point
about the Max 7 and the leaders that you
mentioned earlier, is is the internet
also going to be disrupted by AI? If you
think about what internet companies do,
they take our human attention and they
convert it into a transaction.
But what happens if agents take over?
They are doing our purchases. They are
making decisions. That could be a very
different future. And I wonder whether
that also weighs on the internet
companies, not just the capex, but also
the question of what is the business
model of the future going to look like.
>> How do you find conviction anywhere? I
mean these these are huge disruptions
and we won't truly know the answer about
just how disruptive the forces are until
years to come.
>> So so how do you actually trade these
ideas when they are changing so quickly?
Selectivity is going to be key. We
talked about the index level but if you
just look at the index level you might
actually miss the dispersion that's
going on underneath the surface. Active
is going to be key in our view. dynamic
being uh liquid will remain key as the
world is changing so fast. We have not
seen a technology revolution that's been
moving as fast and the reason is because
it's self-arning. We have never seen a
technology like this and I think these
are the key characteristics. We are
still invested in the enabling layer of
AI into the physical parts of the
economy. I think you can have much more
conviction in the physical world. We are
going to have scarcity there. We're
certainly seeing it along the whole AI
enabling layer. Uh the digital economy I
think is at risk and uh I think that's
the opportunity now for active
management and positioning in those
areas of the AI value chain that are
seeing increased scarcity value.
>> So that's the tech story and it's linked
somewhat to the Fed story because of the
price pressure coming from that
particular industry group. Now we're
starting to have this conversation about
hikes and what really caught my eye in
your work is that you think cuts are
more likely than hikes. kinds of goes
against the grain right now of this
moment where a lot of people are
starting to think about hikes, not one,
two, maybe three if you're at Bank of
America. Why do you believe cuts are
more likely than hikes?
>> Um I I I will go there. I just want to
make one quick comment. You said
technology.
>> Um we actually think that the sector
boundaries are no longer the right ways
to think about the equity markets
because AI is going to be also a
dividing line between winners and losers
in technology. So yes, AI is technology,
but not all technology is AI, and I
think that's what we're going to start
uh to see in the markets already. Uh so
now to the Fed cuts. We still think that
the next move is going to be a cut uh
further out next year for the reasons
that we mentioned earlier because the
economy is going to slow on the margin.
Uh you have just mentioned also wage
inflation is coming down. So we think
the inflationary picture is going to
look better next year and the labor
market in our view is going to also
remain weaker on the margin. We have
seen in the technology sector already
140,000 job losses this year that's
likely to accelerate um further in the
back end of this year and I wonder
whether other forms of knowledge work
will also increasingly being replaced.
So the labor market, inflation coming
down, our base case is still that the
next move by the Fed is going to be a
cut. I think the one risk case though um
thinking about what the market currently
prices is that goods goods prices are
going to start to spiral higher.
Obviously, you know, we've seen this now
with the Apple price hikes. We've seen
it across all the consumer electronics
already. So that's something we are
watching. Um but there are other
offsets. Um, so, so again, our base case
is still inflation trending lower and
then the Fed reacting to that lower
inflation and potentially weaker labor
market.
>> On that labor market point, because you
made the point about AI, I I was just
thinking because um, Matt Miller did an
interview with Ford and they talked
about that they had to hire a bunch of
their veteran workers back because they
thought they could lay off more people
for the sake of robotics. They're like,
"Oops, we actually need skilled labor."
Do you think that that's a mistake that
a lot of companies are either currently
making or going to make? How does that
shape this labor market discussion?
>> I think physical AI, we are quite far
away from physical AI. I mean when I say
quite far, it's always a question
because things are moving very very
rapidly. But right now it's about
knowledge work and coding of course is
the best use case for AI. Um we are
seeing there that now AI code is
self-checking, selfoptimizing. We're
getting into the stage you know
recursive self-improvement. I mean these
are huge drivers again of compute demand
because if code now can self-improve you
could say wow actually is there ever any
limit uh to the amount of compute that
that you'd need. So it's knowledge work.
I don't think necessarily um you know
factory floors will be rapidly um
completely replaced by robotics but for
sure that's uh going to be a factor over
time. Right now we're seeing also a lot
of productivity growth just being able
to do more. So that's another factor
that of course is very bullish for
economic growth.
>> Ora, good to see you as always. Thanks
for breaking it down. The more
constructive view on this equity market
on a day where we're down by 1.3% at
least for the moment on the NASDAQ or
Hoffman Bachani of UBS. Just on the
labor market, Russ Brownback of Black
Rockck on the program earlier mentioning
block and the layoffs there. That felt
like it was years ago.
>> I forgot that even the end of February,
the layoffs there. Ancient history at
this point. Now you have seen some
select layoffs in some banking sectors
but the whole idea of people being laid
off for the sake of technology. I think
because of this push back you've had
less CEOs talk about it. I mean standard
charter was kind of made this poster
child of just how much discontent there
has been. So I wonder if these layoffs
happen kind of more in quiet going
forward just because of that.
>> There is a public relations problem.
Yes.
>> In AI right now and that's for sure.
Danny, thanks for this morning.
>> Thanks for having me.
>> More Danny Burgerer coming up. Another
two hours Danny.
>> Two hours. Open interest just around a
corner taking you towards the open and
bow going into the cash open. We're
negative here by 0.5. Onto Monday, Lisa
will be back alongside an Marie. We'll
catch up with AJ Rajadaka of Barclays,
Alicia Lavine of BNY. We'll catch up
with Amanda Linham of Goldman Sachs and
Jim Karen of Morgan Stanley from New
York City. This is Bloomberg.